Title: AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.12313v2

Published Time: Wed, 19 Aug 2026 01:13:20 GMT

Number of Pages: 64

Markdown Content:
# AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning 

Chuyue Li 1,2 , Jinpeng Yu †1, Haozhe Wang 1,3 , Tian Xueyun 1,4 , Zhijing Zhang 1,5 , Bingnan Li 1, Shuqi Gu 2, Kan Ren *2, Jiaming Liu *1 and Ruihua Huang 1      

> 1Qwen Business Unit of Alibaba, 2ShanghaiTech University, 3The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 4Institute of Computing Technology, 5Southeast University
> †Project Lead. *Co-corresponding authors. Emails: jmliu1217@gmail.com, renkan@shanghaitech.edu.cn. Project Page: https://ava-encoder.github.io/ .

Video creative agents still lack an effective way to learn from high-quality human films, limiting their ability to produce cinematic-grade videos. A key challenge is the absence of a structured video representation that is both faithful to film content and directly usable for agentic reasoning and manipulation. To address the challenge, we propose the Agentic Video Auto-Encoder (AVA-Encoder), a novel auto-encoding framework driven by agentic self-evolution to learn agent-native video representations. AVA-Encoder transforms a video into a Film Knowledge Graph (KG) representation and then reconstructs it back into video. This Film KG representation explicitly captures entities, events, assets, and their multimodal relationships in a structured form that can be easily understood, queried, and manipulated by agents. The reconstruction residual drives a dual-loop textual-gradient optimization framework that jointly improves the Film KG representation and the Agentic Video Encoder. Extensive experiments show that AVA-Encoder achieves a 20.7-percentage-point absolute gain, or a 73.1% relative improvement, over the strongest external baseline. In the controlled policy-only setting, its pseudo-trained Agentic Video Encoder policy also outperforms a carefully human-tuned policy while using 74.3% fewer shot-level and 70.1% fewer keyframe-level system-prompt tokens. We release the complete AVA-Encoder framework, a reliable agentic video reconstruction benchmark, and the first dataset of high-quality Film KG representations. 

## 1. Introduction 

Over the past two years, advances in foundation models (Brooks et al., 2024; Google DeepMind, 2024; Kuaishou Technology, 2024; Polyak et al., 2024) and agentic video creation systems (Xu et al., 2025; Wu et al., 2025; Li et al., 2024; Lin et al., 2024) have enabled agents to write stories, design keyframes, and generate videos. Despite this progress, video creation agents still cannot reliably produce high-quality, cinematic-grade video content. A central limitation is that their base models lack the planning ability needed to coordinate complex filmmaking decisions across scripts, characters, shots, and audiovisual elements. Developing this ability is difficult because the field has very few high-quality records of complete agentic video creation processes from which such models can learn. Meanwhile, a large collection of professional cinematic-grade videos and films directed by human already contains rich knowledge of screenwriting, character design, camera work, pacing, and audiovisual coordination. Human filmmakers can learn this knowledge by closely studying high-quality cinematic-grade videos, but video creation agents cannot directly use the same cinematic-grade videos as clear, step-by-step creation records. This limitation stems from a fundamental mismatch between cinematic-grade video space and agent space. Cinematic-grade videos are tightly connected forms of multimodal content (Huang et al., 2020) that jointly encode stories, character interactions, visual composition, camera language, temporal pacing, and audio design. These elements are tightly coupled across space and time, while the coupled relationship behind the finished videos are not directly shown. In contrast, agents learn and operate through structured representations such as text, code, plans, and graphs, in which information is organized for retrieval, reasoning, planning, and editing (Wang et al., 2025, 2026a). Before agents can learn filmmaking knowledge from existing cinematic-arXiv:2608.12313v2 [cs.CV] 18 Aug 2026 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning 

grade videos, videos must therefore be translated into agent-native representations that make their content, structure, and creation links understandable and operable. An ideal agent-native video representation should satisfy three requirements: it should be understandable to agents, easy for agents to reason over and edit, and faithful enough to preserve the cinematic information required for future generation. Existing representations satisfy only some of these requirements. Low-level visual representations, such as pixels, latent tokens, and video embeddings (Tong et al., 2022; Yu et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023), preserve rich visual information but are difficult for agents to directly interpret, query, or modify. Textual captions (Huang et al., 2020; Chung & Yu, 2023; Mahon & Lapata, 2024) make video content more accessible to agents but compress complex videos into linear descriptions, often losing important structures such as entity relationships, event organization, and cross-modal dependencies. Structured representations, including scene graphs and video knowledge graphs (Song et al., 2024; He et al., 2024; Ataallah et al., 2024), offer a more promising direction. However, most existing systems are designed for video understanding tasks such as retrieval and question answering (Zhang et al., 2024a,b; Qian et al., 2024). They retain sparse semantic facts that support downstream reasoning rather than the rich multimodal details needed for generation and reconstruction. As a result, they may recognize that two characters first meet in shot eight, yet still fail to preserve enough information to faithfully recreate that shot. Moreover, existing representations are typically evaluated on downstream understanding tasks, making it difficult to determine whether they preserve sufficient cinematic information for subsequent video creation. Consequently, current approaches still lack a representation that is simultaneously agent-readable, agent-operable, and cinematically faithful. To meet these three requirements, we propose a Film KG representation. It converts visual, audio, and temporal evidence, together with stories, event progress, shot content, character design, and camera language, into clear structured-text descriptions. The Story–Event–Shot hierarchy and its Character, Scene, Object, Style, Camera, and Audio states all store text; generated images, audio, and video are kept only in a linked asset layer. This text-centered organization makes the representation directly readable, learnable, searchable, and editable by agents. Clearly defined KG edges preserve the cross-modal and cross-level relations among the text descriptions and linked assets. These links maintain film fidelity and allow one edit to update related content along the graph structure. To further reduce information loss when mapping dense multimodal video into structured text, the representation is built through film-, shot-, and keyframe-level understanding, with each finer level using the context from the level above it. To learn high-quality Film KG representations, we therefore introduce AVA-Encoder, the first agentic video auto-encoding framework for self-evolving, cinematically faithful, agent-native video representation learning. AVA-Encoder encodes an input film into the proposed Film KG representation and reconstructs the film from that representation. By treating reconstruction quality as a direct measure of representational faithfulness (He et al., 2022; Mildenhall et al., 2020), it converts reconstruction residuals into optimization signals that refine the shared Agentic Video Encoder policy and the input-specific Film KG representation at separate stages, as summarized in Figure 1. Learning such a representation presents three major challenges, and AVA-Encoder introduces three compo-nents to address them. First, mapping a high-dimensional film, in which visual, audio, temporal, and story information are tightly connected, into structured text can lose important details. The multi-level Agentic Video Encoder (Sec. 4.1) therefore analyzes the film, its shots, and its keyframes in order, passing high-level context to each finer level to retain information needed for reconstruction. Second, a finished film contains complex de-pendencies: stories contain events and shots; events affect one another; and a character is linked to appearance references, dialogue, actions, and story progress across shots. The Film KG representation (Sec. 4.2) separates this information into structured-text nodes and linked assets while using typed edges to preserve its hierarchy, temporal order, and cross-shot dependencies. Third, enabling an agentic auto-encoding process to reliably self-evolve toward high-fidelity video representations is challenging. The agent must make targeted changes to a complex encoding system without destabilizing existing capabilities, while the optimization signal must precisely identify fine-grained reconstruction residuals and remain robust to reward exploitation. To address this challenge, AVA-Encoder combines an agent-compatible dual-loop textual-gradient framework(Sec. 4.3), which pseudo-trains a data-agnostic encoding policy in the outer loop and refines the input-specific Film KG representation at test time in the inner loop; fine-grained factual question-answering (QA)-based optimization signals, which ground textual gradients in atomic discrepancies between source and reconstructed videos; and 

> 2AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Figure 1 | Overview of AVA-Encoder. (a) The closed-loop auto-encoding framework maps an original video to a Film KG representation through an Agentic Video Encoder policy, reconstructs it with a fixed decoder, and converts the reconstruction residual into gated Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement and Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training. (b) The Agentic Video Encoder performs film-, shot-, and keyframe-level understanding with hierarchical context injection and shared character, scene, and object registries. (c) The resulting graph organizes typed story, event, shot, state, and keyframe nodes with linked generated assets, enabling constrained generation and topology-aware subgraph editing. a decoupled evaluation protocol, which separates the loop-facing 𝑅 reward from the independent 𝑅 eval to guard against reward exploitation (Sec. 4.3.1). Our contributions are threefold: 1. Agentic Video Auto-Encoder. We introduce the Agentic Video Auto-Encoder paradigm, which formulates agent-native video representation learning as a self-evolving agentic auto-encoding problem. We release the complete AVA-Encoder framework and show that the two optimization stages improve Overall reconstruction by 6.6 percentage points, or 15.6% relative, over removing both stages. Under the controlled policy-only comparison, pseudo-training exceeds the human-tuned Agentic Video Encoder by 1.4 points, or 3.2% relative, while using 74.3% fewer shot-level and 70.1% fewer keyframe-level system-prompt tokens. 2. Agentic Video Representation Benchmark. We establish the first benchmark for evaluating agentic video representations through reconstruction faithfulness. The benchmark includes four evaluation directions and eight fine-grained dimensions covering narrative, visual, temporal, and multimodal consistency. Its automatic metrics agree with human judgments on 710 of 730 blinded triples (97.3%) over 18 varied video clips, 129 film shots, and 246 keyframes. 3. Film KG Dataset and Editing Framework. We release the first dataset of high-quality Film KG represen-tations together with a graph-based editing framework. Beyond representation learning, this resource provides step-by-step creation records for agentic video generation and supports more controllable video editing, film remixing, and reuse. 

> 3AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

## 2. Related Work 

This section positions AVA-Encoder along two lines of research that jointly motivate an agent-native film representation. We first examine agentic video creation systems and the process-level data bottleneck that limits their progress, and then review existing video representations and why they are not sufficient for faithful agentic creation and editing. 

2.1. Agentic Video Creation Systems 

Recent systems have made substantial progress toward automating video creation from scratch. Built on large language models (LLMs) and vision-language models (VLMs), they use planning and tool orchestration for generation, editing, and remixing (Lin et al., 2024; Zhuang et al., 2024; Xie et al., 2024; Yuan et al., 2024; Lai et al., 2026), including generation agents (Li et al., 2024; Long et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2025; Xu et al., 2025) and editing frameworks (Song et al., 2026; comfyanonymous and ComfyUI contributors, 2023). However, these systems still struggle to produce consistently high-quality, deliverable films. Their creation ability remains constrained by the underlying video foundation models (Brooks et al., 2024; Google DeepMind, 2024; Kuaishou Technology, 2024; Kong et al., 2024; Wan Team et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025; Polyak et al., 2024), which in turn makes it difficult to generate high-quality records of complete agentic creation processes. Because few such process-level datasets are openly available, agents also lack the supervision needed to learn stronger cinematic planning and execution. This creates a cycle in which limited creation ability yields limited training trajectories, and limited trajectories slow further improvement. AVA-Encoder breaks this cycle by making high-quality human films directly learnable by agents. It converts a film into a Film Knowledge Graph (KG) representation that records its narrative, entities, shots, keyframes, and production dependencies in an agent-operable form. Agents can therefore study how human directors organize cinematic content rather than learning only from videos generated by existing agents. Moreover, decoding a Film KG naturally produces aligned intermediate records and rendered outputs, yielding high-quality agentic video creation trajectories that can support future training. We will release a Film KG dataset of agentic representations derived from high-quality human-made films, including award-winning works, to help fill this process-level data gap. The same graph supports linked editing, so one change can propagate to the related scripts, characters, keyframes, and shots. 

2.2. Agent-Native Video Representations 

Existing video representations provide three main levels of abstraction. They include low-level features such as pixels, latents, and embeddings (Tong et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2023); textual descriptions such as captions and screenplays (Huang et al., 2020; Chung & Yu, 2023; Mahon & Lapata, 2024); and structured long-video forms such as sparse memories and hierarchical summaries (Zhang et al., 2024a,b; Song et al., 2024; He et al., 2024; Ataallah et al., 2024; Qian et al., 2024). These representations do not simultaneously provide agent operability and the information needed for visual creation. Low-level features retain visual evidence but are difficult for agents to inspect and edit, whereas captions and screenplays are easier to manipulate but omit fine-grained visual and production details. Existing graph representations are primarily designed for understanding rather than generation: they retain sparse semantic facts, often rely on costly construction pipelines, and are evaluated through retrieval or question answering, neither of which establishes that a representation preserves enough information to recreate the source. AVA-Encoder instead learns a film-centric KG representation through video reconstruction, using reconstruction fidelity both to measure information preservation and to expose actionable residuals for self-improvement. 

## 3. Task Definition 

We formulate agent-native video representation learning as an agentic auto-encoding problem, where an agent autonomously learns to encode a video into a structured intermediate representation that can faithfully reconstruct the original video. 

> 4AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

3.1. Problem Formulation 

Let V denote the continuous domain of high-dimensional cinematic videos. Given an input film 𝑉 ∈ V , the Agentic Video Auto-Encoder (AVA-Encoder) framework maps, compresses, and reconstructs the video through three foundational components: 1. Agentic Video Encoder ( 𝐸 ): Governed by an encoding policy 𝑃 , implemented as three distinct system prompts corresponding to the film-, shot-, and keyframe-understanding stages, the encoder maps the continuous video into an explicit intermediate Film KG representation:  

> 𝐺

= 𝐸 (𝑉 ; 𝑃 ). (1) 2. Film KG Representation Space ( G): Unlike dense neural embeddings, the bottleneck 𝐺 ∈ G is a comprehensive Film KG representation. It organizes Story, Event, and Shot nodes together with their linked state and asset records, preserving long-range cross-shot relations and asset dependencies. 3. Fixed Video Decoder ( Dec ): The decoder is a static rendering pipeline that calls fixed generation models as tools. Taking the required generated reference keyframes and prompt descriptions for each shot from the Film KG representation, it sequentially produces ˆ 𝑉 = Dec (𝐺 ). Because the decoder is entirely fixed, reconstruction performance relies on the encoder and the quality of the Film KG representation:   

> 𝑉 𝐸 (· ;𝑃 )

−−−−−→ 𝐺 Dec 

−−−→ ˆ𝑉. (2) 

3.2. Optimization Objective 

Since the decoder acts as a fixed measurement channel without trainable weights, representation quality can be directly measured by the reconstruction residual against the ground-truth video 𝑉 . Let 𝑅 (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) denote the reconstruction residual tensor and let L(·) convert it into a scalar loss. We define the task-level objective as  

> 𝜃 ∗

= arg min 

> 𝜃

L



> 𝑅

(𝑉, ˆ𝑉 )



> ,

where 

(𝜃 = 𝑃, ˆ𝑉 = Dec (𝐸 (𝑉 ; 𝑃 )) , in outer-loop pseudo-training ,𝜃 = 𝐺 ∈ G , ˆ𝑉 = Dec (𝐺 ), 𝑃 = 𝑃 ∗ fixed , in inner-loop test-time refinement .

(3) Here, 𝜃 is a stage-specific placeholder denoting the learnable object at different stages. In the first case,  

> 𝜃 ∗

= 𝑃 ∗ and the agentic encoding policy 𝑃 is autonomously optimized during outer-loop pseudo-training through its trainable 𝑃 shot and 𝑃 kf components, while 𝑃 film remains fixed; in the second, 𝜃 ∗ = 𝐺 ∗ and the input-specific graph representation 𝐺 is autonomously optimized during inner-loop test-time refinement with 𝑃 ∗ fixed. The two loops form a dual optimization scheme, operating on distinct objects at different stages while jointly minimizing the video reconstruction residual; their detailed formulations are given in Secs. 4.3.2 and 4.3.3, respectively. 

## 4. Method: AVA-Encoder 

To address the three challenges introduced in Sec. 1, AVA-Encoder builds an agentic auto-encoding framework driven by a dual-loop textual-gradient evolution. As shown in Figure 1 (a), besides a fixed decoder Dec (·) ,AVA-Encoder’s three components are a multi-level Agentic Video Encoder guided by policy 𝑃 (Sec. 4.1), a text-centered Film KG representation with a linked multimodal asset layer (Sec. 4.2), and dual-loop textual-gradient evolution for the data-agnostic encoding policy and each input-specific Film KG representation (Sec. 4.3), with reconstruction-residual signals that seperates detailed optimization and final evaluation (Sec. 4.3.1). 

4.1. Agentic Video Encoder 

As discussed in Sec. 1, mapping a high-dimensional film into structured text can lose fine-grained cinematic information. As shown in Figure 1(b), our Agentic Video Encoder addresses this challenge through two comple-mentary designs: three-level specialized understanding , which respectively focuses on information understanding 

> 5AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

at each corresponding granularity across the three levels to guarantee information precision; and inter-level context injection , which propagates information across granularities to supply contextual dependencies. Together, they preserve both global dependencies and fine-grained cinematic details needed for faithful reconstruction. Given an input video, the encoder realizes these designs through three steps: video preprocessing, hierarchical agentic understanding, and Film KG assembly. Given an input video 𝑉 = ( 𝑓 𝑡 )𝑇 𝑡 =1, where 𝑓 𝑡 is the frame at temporal index 𝑡 and 𝑇 is the total number of frames, the encoder constructs its structured representation as follows. 

Step 1: Video Preprocessing. We first partition 𝑉 into a temporally ordered sequence of 𝑆 cinematic shots: 

S = (𝑠 𝑖 )𝑆 𝑖 =1 = Seg (𝑉 ), 𝑠 𝑖 = ( 𝑓 𝑡 )𝑡 ∈ I 𝑖 , (4) where I𝑖 is the temporal frame-index interval of shot 𝑠 𝑖 . Each shot is further represented by one or more motion-stable keyframes: 

K𝑖 = ( 𝑓 kf  

> 𝑖, 𝑗

)𝐽 𝑖  

> 𝑗 =1

= Key (𝑠 𝑖 ), 𝑓 kf  

> 𝑖, 𝑗

∈ 𝑠 𝑖 , (5) where 𝐽 𝑖 is the number of keyframes selected from 𝑠 𝑖 .

Step 2: Hierarchical Agentic Understanding. We perform hierarchical agentic understanding via two complementary designs: three-level specialized understanding , focusing on film, shot, and keyframe levels for precise extraction, and inter-level context injection , propagating higher-level context to finer stages to prevent field-of-view misjudgments. These are implemented by the three-stage agentic encoder under agentic policy 

𝑃 = (𝑃 film , 𝑃 shot , 𝑃 kf ):

(C film , Breg ) = 𝐸 film (𝑉 ; 𝑃 film ),

Cshot ,𝑖 = 𝐸 shot (𝑠 𝑖 , Cfilm , Breg ; 𝑃 shot ),

Ckf ,𝑖, 𝑗 = 𝐸 kf ( 𝑓 kf  

> 𝑖, 𝑗

, Cshot ,𝑖 , Breg ; 𝑃 kf ),

(6) 

Three-Level Specialized Understanding. Each stage targets its native granularity: First, the global 𝐸 film 

captures global narration and cross-shot relations, initializing registry Breg = Bchar ∪ B scene ∪ B obj as an anchor, which lists registries for characters, scenes, and objects; Second, the shot 𝐸 shot captures shot-level temporal, audiovisual, and camera dynamics; Third, the keyframe 𝐸 kf extracts fine-grained visual composition and appearance in keyframes. Their outputs Cfilm , Cshot ,𝑖 , Ckf ,𝑖, 𝑗 jointly capture semantic, visual, and temporal information across the global film, shot, and keyframe levels. 

Inter-Level Context Injection. To prevent stage-isolated misjudgments, each finer stage conditions on higher-level understanding to supply contextual text. Specifically, Cfilm injects context into all shot operations, 

Cshot ,𝑖 injects context into its keyframes, and the complete shared registry Breg is fed into both finer levels to anchor the global consistency of names and indices for characters, scenes, and objects. Thus, information flows explicitly from film to shot to keyframe, interpreting local observations through broader narrative, temporal, and entity dependencies. Agentic policy 𝑃 is optimized via outer-loop Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training. 

Step 3: Film KG Assembly. Finally, the structured textual results from the three understanding levels, including their extracted relations and registry links, are assembled in one pass into the Film KG: 

𝐺 = 𝐸 (𝑉 ; 𝑃 ) = BuildGraph 



Cfilm , Breg , {C shot ,𝑖 , {C kf ,𝑖, 𝑗 }𝐽 𝑖  

> 𝑗 =1

}𝑆 𝑖 =1



. (7) BuildGraph deterministically maps these records to the fixed graph schema and requires no additional model call. Complete implementation details for all three encoder steps are provided in Appendix Sec. E. The next subsection introduces the resulting Film KG representation. 

4.2. Film KG Representation 

To address Challenge 2 in Sec. 1, which concerns preserving the complex information dependencies in cinematic videos, we develop the Film KG representation as the agentic video representation format. The Film KG separates 

> 6AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

multimodal content into structured-text nodes and linked multimodal assets, while typed edges preserve hierarchical, temporal, and cross-shot relations. Formally, the Agentic Video Encoder outputs a discrete, text-centered graph 𝐺 = (N 𝐺 , E𝐺 , A𝐺 ), where N𝐺 contains structured textual descriptions and metadata records that describe or index multimodal assets, E𝐺 contains their typed relations, and A𝐺 stores or references generated image, audio, and video assets. We next describe the node and asset organization, the typed edge structure, and how these designs make the representation directly operable by agents; the complete stored structure, construction procedure, and graph-based update rules are provided in Appendix Sec. K, Film KG Representation and Editing .The graph contains ten graph-addressable node types: nine structured-text node types and a keyframe node type, with each node storing a structured unit of reconstruction-critical information needed to reconstruct the input film. The text nodes consist of the narrative hierarchy of Story , Event , and Shot , together with six shot-specific states: Character , Scene , Object , Style , Camera , and Audio . In the current implementation, entity variants are represented within the attributes of the corresponding character or scene state nodes rather than as separate node types. Every node stores structured information. In particular, a keyframe node stores its textual description and image-generation payload; the corresponding generated keyframe image is stored or referenced in A𝐺 and connected to that node through an asset-reference link. For example, an Audio state describes spoken content, speaker identity, voice properties, music, sound effects, and audiovisual synchronization in text. The asset layer A𝐺 stores or references generated keyframe images, reference images of characters, scenes, and objects, audio or voice assets, and rendered shot videos; graph nodes connect to these assets through graph links and asset references. All assets are generated from the structured-text representation: no frame, crop, or screenshot from the input video is stored as an asset or supplied to the reconstruction generators. This structured-text-centered design makes the representation directly compatible with an agent workspace for reasoning, learning, and editing, while the ordered textual descriptions preserve the intermediate creation process as an agentic video creation trajectory (Wang et al., 2026b). The graph contains eleven edge types organized into three groups: 

Eprod = {Contains , Binds , References },

Etemp = {Transition , Sequence , Jump },

Esem = {SpokenBy , Rel , Similar , Features , Narrative }.

Production and asset links use Eprod , temporal organization uses Etemp , and semantic dependencies use Esem .Specifically, Contains encodes the Story–Event–Shot hierarchy; Binds connects shots with their state and keyframe nodes; and References links keyframes to registry assets. Transition , Sequence , and Jump preserve entity-state transitions, temporal order, and non-adjacent appearances, respectively. SpokenBy , Rel , Similar ,

Features , and Narrative encode speaker identity, entity relationships, visual similarity, scene–entity associations, and narrative dependencies such as cause, setup, and callback. Built during video understanding, these text nodes retain reconstruction-critical descriptions, while the typed edges preserve dependencies among the descriptions and their linked assets. This structure makes the representation directly operable by agents: a local edit can update the affected subgraph according to propagation rules, enabling flexible, global coordinated agentic editing across various dimensions of a video. RQ3 (Sec. 5.4) demonstrates this graph operability, while RQ4 (Sec. 5.5) evaluates reuse of the representation for downstream generation. 

4.3. Dual-Loop Textual-Gradient Evolution 

To address Challenge 3 in Sec. 1, which concerns reliable self-evolution toward high-fidelity video representa-tions, we develop a dual-loop textual-gradient evolution framework that improves the agentic auto-encoding process at two complementary levels. Its core principle is to use the fixed decoder to expose reconstruction failures, translate those failures into fine-grained textual gradients, and apply each gradient to the appro-priate optimization target. Before deployment, Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training (the outer loop ) optimizes the shared Agentic Video Encoder policy 𝑃 across a collection of videos by updating 𝑃 shot and  

> 𝑃 kf

, while holding 𝑃 film and all foundation-model weights fixed. At test time, optional Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement (the inner loop ) holds the complete policy 𝑃 fixed and refines only the input-specific KG representation 𝐺 of the current video. The two loops thus realize policy-level and representation-level 

> 7AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

evolution on different variables at different stages; they are not nested, so either may be enabled independently or they may be applied sequentially. Despite their different optimization targets, both loops follow the same gated self-evolution cycle: reconstruct the input, diagnose reconstruction failures, formulate textual gradients, propose a candidate update, verify the candidate, and then accept or reject it. The outer loop applies this cycle to 𝑃 across videos, accumulating successful corrections into transferable encoding rules while using the Anti-Forgetting Gate to limit regression on previously processed videos. The inner loop applies the cycle to the current 𝐺 , making localized corrections for input-specific failures while using the Anti-Degradation Gate to guard against regressions in already-correct content. Figure 2(b) illustrates the outer loop, and Figure 2(a) illustrates the subsequent optional inner loop. Textual gradients provide the common, agent-compatible update language for this cycle. We follow the TextGrad formulation (Yuksekgonul et al., 2024): a textual gradient is natural-language feedback passed from evaluation evidence to the text variable responsible for the observed error. It describes both the error and the requested revision, serving as an optimization direction rather than a numerical derivative. Grounding this feedback in specific facts helps the agent locate both the problem and its update direction, enabling focused improvement (Wang et al., 2026c). We call each atomic, source-grounded fact checked against a reconstruction an evaluation item ; an item fails when that fact is missing, contradicted, or otherwise not preserved. Examples include an incorrect QA answer about a character’s clothing, a missing action in a reconstructed shot, and a grounded visual difference between a ground-truth (GT) and reconstructed keyframe. We denote one such fact-level reconstruction failure by 𝜉 𝑖 and write it as the correction record 

a𝑖 := Corr (𝜉 𝑖 ) =

  

> 𝑑 𝑖 , 𝑢 GT
> 𝑖 , 𝑢 rec
> 𝑖 , 𝑒 𝑖 , ℎ 𝑖

 

> ,

(8) where a𝑖 is one atomic correction record, 𝑖 indexes the failure, 𝑑 𝑖 is its evaluation dimension, 𝑢 GT  

> 𝑖

and 𝑢 rec  

> 𝑖

are the corresponding ground-truth and reconstructed facts, 𝑒 𝑖 is the supporting visual or audio evidence, and  

> ℎ𝑖

is the requested correction. Records assigned to the input-specific KG representation or to the trainable components of the Agentic Video Encoder policy form the inputs to ∇𝐺  

> text

and ∇𝑃 

> text

, respectively, producing the asset- and policy-level textual gradients used below. Appendix Sec. A, Textual Gradients and AVA-Encoder Self-Optimization , gives the branch-specific feedback sources and complete update operators. Reliable use of this update language requires both actionable loop feedback and an independent final measure. Branch-specific reconstruction failures provide the evidence used to diagnose the incumbent and construct textual gradients, whereas the scalar loop-facing signal 𝑅 reward supports candidate verification and acceptance decisions. The independent score 𝑅 eval is used only to report final reconstruction fidelity and compare representation systems; it never directly drives either loop. This separation keeps the final evaluation protocol outside the optimization process and reduces direct adaptation to the reported metric. We next define the common reconstruction-based feedback and these two methodological roles before instantiating policy-level and representation-level evolution in the outer and inner loops. 

4.3.1. Reconstruction Residual 

Both loops derive feedback from the task-level reconstruction residual 𝑅 (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) introduced in Sec. 3.2, which provides observable evidence of information lost or altered during encoding. Given a source video 𝑉 , the Agentic Video Encoder produces 𝐺 = 𝐸 (𝑉 ; 𝑃 ), and the fixed decoder reconstructs ˆ 𝑉 = Dec (𝐺 ). Because the decoder is fixed, differences between 𝑉 and ˆ 𝑉 reveal source information that the resulting representation does not faithfully preserve. We use this reconstruction evidence in three distinct roles: branch-specific failures diagnose errors and construct textual gradients, 𝑅 reward supports candidate verification, and 𝑅 eval provides the common final measure for cross-system comparison. 

Optimization signal 𝑅 reward . Precise self-evolution requires fine-grained feedback that both localizes an error and supports candidate verification. A vision-language model can identify evidence in a complex image or video, but assigning one precise score directly to such dense content is less reliable (Wang et al., 2026d) and does not reveal which fact should be corrected. We therefore construct QA-based instances of 𝑅 reward from approximately 30 atomic factual questions for each selected source shot or keyframe. Each question tests one observable fact, so an incorrect answer identifies a localized reconstruction failure while also lowering the aggregate reward. To formalize the selected-shot instance used in outer-loop pseudo-training, let 𝑛 index a source video, let the non-empty set Ssel  

> 𝑛

contain its selected shots, and let 𝑠 ∈ S sel  

> 𝑛

and 𝑘 index a shot and an 

> 8

AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning Current Asset  G

> Current Reconstruction

 ̂ V

Current Residual  R(V,̂ V )

Challenger Residual  R(V,̂ V′)

Frozen Decoder 

Dec ( ⋅ ) 

Challenger Asset  G′

> Challenger Reconstruction

 ̂ V′

## (a) Inner-Loop 

Asset Textual Gradient 

## (b) Outer-Loop 

Current Video  Vn 

> Incumbent Policy

P

Dec ( ⋅ ) 

> Current Reconstruction

 ̂ Vn 

Current Residual  R(Vn,̂ Vn)

Policy Textual Gradient 

Replay Memory  ℳ1: n−1  

> Challenger Policy

P′

Dec ( ⋅ ) 

> Updated Reconstruction

 ̂ V′n

> Replay Reconstruction

 ̂ ℳ′ 1: n−1 

> Updated Residual

R(Vn,̂ V′n)

> Replay Residual

R(ℳ 1: n−1 ,̂ ℳ′ 1: n−1 )

> History Residual

R(ℳ1: n−1 ,̂ ℳ1: n−1 )Frozen Decoder 

Dec ( ⋅ ) 

Accept  G′Reject  G′

> Anti-Degradation Gate

## − − −

Accept  P′Reject  P′

> Anti-Forgetting Gate
> Stage 1 Stage 2

Figure 2 | Dual-loop textual-gradient evolution. (a) Inner loop: Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement with the Anti-Degradation Gate. (b) Outer loop: Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training with the Anti-Forgetting Gate. atomic question. For source shot 𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 , a frozen QA bank Q𝑛,𝑠 = {( 𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 , 𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 )} 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 

> 𝑘

=1 contains 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 ≥ 1 questions and source-derived binary answers. Given the complete policy 𝑃 , let ˆ 𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) := Dec (𝐸 (𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 ; 𝑃 )) , let Answer return a reconstructed binary answer, and let 𝕀 [·] denote the indicator function. The corresponding fact-preservation 

9AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning 

indicator, residual vector, mean residual, and higher-is-better reward are 

𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ) := 𝕀 Answer ( ˆ𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ), 𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 ) = 𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 

 ,

rqa  

> 𝑛,𝑠

(𝑃 ) :=  1 − 𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ) 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠  

> 𝑘 =1

,

¯𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑠

(𝑃 ) := 1

𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 ∑︁ 

> 𝑘 =1

(1 − 𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 )) ,𝑅 reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) := 1 − ¯𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑠

(𝑃 ) = 1

𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 ∑︁ 

> 𝑘 =1

𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ).

(9) Here, 𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 indicates whether the reconstruction preserves atomic fact 𝑘 , rqa  

> 𝑛,𝑠

is the corresponding binary QA residual vector, and ¯ 𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑠

is its arithmetic mean. The selected-shot set Ssel  

> 𝑛

and every frozen QA bank are non-empty, so all averages are defined. The video-level reward is 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) := |S sel  

> 𝑛

|−1 Í 

> 𝑠 ∈ S sel
> 𝑛

𝑅 reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ). QA evaluation thus returns two complementary outputs: failed facts provide localized evidence for textual-gradient construction, while the scalar reward supports candidate verification and acceptance. The outer loop uses both outputs; the keyframe inner loop instead obtains its modification direction from direct GT–reconstruction differences and uses an analogous frozen QA bank over static keyframe images for verification. The shot inner loop uses a shot-reward checklist to obtain both failed evidence and its candidate score. Appendix Sec. C, 

Reconstruction Reward for Loop Optimization , gives the complete question construction, branch-specific feedback sources, averaging, and prompts. 

Final evaluation: 𝑅 eval . To keep final comparison independent of loop optimization, we reserve 𝑅 eval for reporting reconstruction fidelity and never use it to drive candidate updates or acceptance. Like 𝑅 reward , the final protocol avoids a single overall vision-language-model score by collecting fine-grained factual QA and checklist judgments before aggregation. Under frozen prompts, the VLM produces only atomic judgments—such as match, partial match, mismatch, hit, conflict, or missing—together with their evidence; it does not directly assign the reported direction or Overall scores. Fixed, deterministic machine rules convert those judgments to numerical fact scores and aggregate them from facts to dimensions, shots or keyframes, video cases, and finally the four reported directions. 𝑅 eval measures reconstruction quality in those four directions: Video (V), Keyframe (KF), Video Back-Captioning (V-BC), and Keyframe Back-Captioning (KF-BC). It covers Character, Scene, Position, Motion, Audio, Style, Camera, and Narrative, with Audio marked N/A for the keyframe directions. For one direction with 𝐷 app applicable dimensions, let reval (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) = (𝑟 eval 1 , . . . , 𝑟 eval  

> 𝐷 app

) ∈ [ 0, 1]𝐷 app be its normalized lower-is-better residual vector. The corresponding higher-is-better final evaluation score is 

𝑅 eval (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) :=

> 𝐷 app

∑︁ 

> 𝑑 =1

𝜔 eval  

> 𝑑

(1 − 𝑟 eval  

> 𝑑

),

> 𝐷 app

∑︁ 

> 𝑑 =1

𝜔 eval  

> 𝑑

= 1. (10) where 𝜔 eval  

> 𝑑

≥ 0 is the fixed weight of applicable dimension 𝑑 . Thus, branch-specific failed evidence supports textual-gradient construction, 𝑅 reward supports candidate selection within the loops, and 𝑅 eval remains the inde-pendent final-reporting protocol. Sec. 5.1 explains the evaluation design, and Appendix Sec. B, Reconstruction Evaluation Metrics , gives the complete scoring rules. RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) reports final reconstruction fidelity under 𝑅 eval , while RQ2 (Sec. 5.3) tests the contribution of the two stages driven by 𝑅 reward .

4.3.2. Outer Loop: Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training 

Before optional test-time Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement, the outer loop learns reusable cross-video encoding behavior by performing Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training on the complete Agentic Video Encoder policy 𝑃 . It updates 𝑃 shot and 𝑃 kf through separate prompt-rewriting branches while holding 𝑃 film and all foundation-model weights fixed. Here, data-agnostic means that the learned policy is shared across downstream inputs rather than adapted to the representation of one current video. To accumulate transferable encoding rules rather than overfit one clip, each branch processes a stream of source videos 

𝑉 1 → 𝑉 2 → · · · → 𝑉 𝐿 ; when video 𝑉 𝑛 begins, the complete policy containing that branch’s prompt accepted after all preceding videos is frozen as the inherited replay baseline 𝑃 (𝑛 ) ← 𝑃 . The same procedure may be run 

> 10 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

before deployment on a user-supplied video collection, after which the resulting shared policy is frozen for downstream encoding. For each video, each prompt-rewriting branch follows a propose–verify–accept cycle that converts failed QA facts into a candidate prompt update and verifies the candidate on both current and historical data. The equa-tions below instantiate the shot-prompt branch; the keyframe-prompt branch applies the same cycle to selected keyframes and their frozen image-QA banks. During shot-prompt proposal, the incumbent complete policy 𝑃 

reconstructs every selected shot of 𝑉 𝑛 , and the frozen QA banks return the failed atomic facts together with the equal-shot reward 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) defined from Eq. 9. Let ˆ 𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ) be the answer obtained from reconstruction ˆ 𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 )

for question 𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 . The current video’s failed-fact set is Fqa ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) := {( 𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 , 𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 , ˆ𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 )) : 𝑠 ∈ S sel  

> 𝑛

, ˆ𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ) ≠

𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 }. These failures form correction records Tpol ,𝑛 := {Corr (𝜉 ) : 𝜉 ∈ F qa ,𝑛 (𝑃 )} and the policy-level textual gradient gpolicy text = ∇𝑃  

> text

(T pol ,𝑛 ). A language rewriting agent then proposes 𝑃 ′ = ProposePolicy (𝑃, gpolicy text ) by revising the active branch’s 𝑃 shot or 𝑃 kf prompt while preserving 𝑃 film and the other prompt. During verification, the framework evaluates 𝑃 ′ on the same current-video samples and a sampled historical replay set before applying the Anti-Forgetting Gate. Thus, failures observed on 𝑉 𝑛 supervise one reusable encoding prompt at a time rather than directly modifying the input-specific representation of 𝑉 𝑛 .Because sequential policy evolution can improve the current video while forgetting previously acquired encoding behavior, the Anti-Forgetting Gate requires current-video improvement while bounding both visual and historical degradation. The current-video reward gain Δ𝑅 reward ,𝑛 = 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ′)− 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) and visual-only gain Δ𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 compare the candidate with the current incumbent 𝑃 . Let M1: 𝑛 −1 denote the replay memory retained from the preceding pseudo-training videos. Historical preservation is measured by Δ ¯𝑅 reward ,hist , which compares 𝑃 ′ with the inherited policy 𝑃 (𝑛 ) on the same shots sampled from this memory: 

Γouter = 𝕀 



Δ𝑅 reward ,𝑛 > 𝛿 ∧ Δ𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 ≥ − 𝛿 vis ∧ Δ ¯𝑅 reward ,hist ≥ − 𝛿 hist 



, (11) where 𝛿 is the required current-video gain, 𝛿 vis and 𝛿 hist bound acceptable visual and historical decreases, and 

𝕀 (·) is the indicator function. The three conditions respectively enforce current improvement, visual stability, and historical stability; all are higher-is-better QA instances of 𝑅 reward and remain distinct from 𝑅 eval . Appendix Secs. C and D give the exact equal-shot aggregation, replay-memory construction and sampling, and gate thresholds. Algorithm 1 summarizes the sequential pseudo-training template, which is applied separately to the shot-and keyframe-prompt branches before their accepted prompts are assembled into 𝑃 ∗.

Algorithm 1 Outer Loop: Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training 

Require: Video stream {𝑉 𝑛 }𝐿 𝑛 =1; initial policy 𝑃 0 = (𝑃 film , 𝑃 shot ,0, 𝑃 kf ,0) with fixed 𝑃 film ; decoder Dec; QA reward 

𝑅 reward ; 𝑇 outer = 3 candidate rounds per video 

Ensure: Pseudo-trained policy 𝑃 ∗ = (𝑃 film , 𝑃 ∗

> shot

, 𝑃 ∗ 

> kf

) 

> 1:

𝑃 ← 𝑃 0; M1:0 ← ∅  

> 2:

for 𝑛 = 1 to 𝐿 do  

> 3:

𝑃 (𝑛 ) ← 𝑃 ⊲ Freeze the inherited policy as replay baseline  

> 4:

Freeze the active branch’s QA banks over its selected reconstruction units  

> 5:

for 𝑡 = 1 to 𝑇 outer do  

> 6:

Reconstruct the selected units and evaluate them with 𝑅 reward , obtaining Fqa ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) and 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) 

> 7:

Tpol ,𝑛 ← { Corr (𝜉 ) : 𝜉 ∈ F qa ,𝑛 (𝑃 )}  

> 8:

gpolicy text ← ∇ 𝑃  

> text

(T pol ,𝑛 ) ⊲ Form policy-level textual-gradient feedback  

> 9:

𝑃 ′ ← ProposePolicy (𝑃, gpolicy text ) ⊲ Revise the active 𝑃 shot or 𝑃 kf branch  

> 10:

Reconstruct and evaluate 𝑃 ′ with 𝑅 reward on the current and replay units  

> 11:

if Γouter = 1 then ⊲ Apply current-video and replay checks in Eq. 11  

> 12:

𝑃 ← 𝑃 ′ ⊲ Promote the accepted policy to the next candidate round  

> 13:

end if  

> 14:

end for  

> 15:

M1: 𝑛 ← M 1: 𝑛 −1 ∪ { one replay record from 𝑉 𝑛 } 

> 16:

end for  

> 17:

return 𝑃 

> 11 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy and Generalization. The resulting pseudo-trained policy is intended to learn transferable encoding rules rather than memorize its six pseudo-training clips. It is evaluated on 18 non-overlapping downstream clips: the policy-only condition in Table 2, reported as “Remove Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement,” reaches an Overall reconstruction fidelity score of 45 .8%, compared with 44 .4% for the independently human-tuned Agentic Video Encoder policy, an absolute advantage of 1 .4 points or 3 .2% relative. At the policy-component level, the pseudo-trained shot prompt uses 8,052 rather than 31,336 tokens, a 74 .3% reduction, while the pseudo-trained keyframe prompt uses 4,062 rather than 13,574 tokens, a 70 .1% reduction. With optional test-time Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement, the complete AVA-Encoder reaches 49 .0%. This controlled policy-only comparison, together with transfer from six pseudo-training clips to 18 non-overlapping clips that include both related and different content domains, evaluates cross-clip and cross-domain generalization. RQ2 (Sec. 5.3) reports these policy-level and combined effects. 

4.3.3. Inner Loop: Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement 

After the complete Agentic Video Encoder policy 𝑃 has been fixed, optional Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement corrects input-specific reconstruction residuals by updating only the current video’s Film KG representation 𝐺 . Unlike the outer loop, which learns reusable policy behavior across videos, the inner loop does not modify the encoder policy; it directly adapts the representation of the current input. Each update is localized to a selected multimodal asset and its generation payload. Across its two refinement settings, the inner loop follows a shared diagnose–revise–verify cycle that differs only in the feedback source, selected asset, and acceptance gate. Starting from the current 𝐺 , the framework reconstructs ˆ 𝑉 , diagnoses a failure, converts it into an asset-level textual gradient, revises the selected representation component to obtain 𝐺 ′, reconstructs ˆ 𝑉 ′, and accepts the candidate only if its Anti-Degradation Gate passes. The setting index 𝛽 ∈ { KF , shot } denotes keyframe refinement and video-shot refinement, respectively. The two settings use complementary reconstruction feedback. Keyframe refinement directly compares a selected ground-truth keyframe 𝐼 GT with the corresponding reconstructed keyframe 𝐼 base extracted from ˆ 𝑉 :Diff KF supplies grounded differences for diagnosis, whereas 𝑅 KF reward supplies QA-based candidate verification. Video-shot refinement instead uses Fail shot , the mismatched or absent facts from a fixed shot-reward checklist, together with its scalar score 𝑅 shot reward . The shared diagnostic evidence and loop-facing score are Feedback 𝛽 (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) :=

(

Diff KF (𝐼 GT , 𝐼 base ), 𝛽 = KF ,

Fail shot (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ), 𝛽 = shot ,𝑅 𝛽  

> reward

(𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) :=

( 

> 𝑅 KF reward

(𝐼 base ), 𝛽 = KF ,𝑅 shot reward (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ), 𝛽 = shot .

(12) Thus, the keyframe branch separates direct-difference diagnosis from reward-based verification, whereas the video-shot evaluator supplies both failure evidence and the candidate score. In both settings, the diagnosed failures revise only the selected representation component. Writing F𝛽 :=

Feedback 𝛽 (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ), the inner loop forms T𝐺 := {Corr (𝜉 ) : 𝜉 ∈ F 𝛽 } and gasset text = ∇𝐺  

> text

(T 𝐺 ), then proposes 𝐺 ′ =

ProposeAsset (𝐺, gasset text ). For 𝛽 = KF, ProposeAsset rewrites the selected keyframe image-generation payload; for 𝛽 = shot, it rewrites the selected shot video-generation payload. This design maps a local reconstruction residual to a local representation update rather than rewriting the entire Film KG for one failure. Appendix Sec. A gives the complete correction-record and asset-level textual-gradient construction. Because test-time refinement can introduce sampling-induced regressions or damage already-correct content through off-target edits, a candidate 𝐺 ′ is committed only if it clears the setting-specific Anti-Degradation Gate:  

> Γinner

=

( 

> ΓKF inner ,

keyframe refinement , 

> Γshot inner ,

video-shot refinement . (13) For keyframe refinement, ΓKF inner combines the QA-reward anti-degradation check in Eq. 12 with PairCons, an auxiliary order-consistency safeguard for the pairwise candidate preference. For video-shot refinement, Γshot inner 

requires a positive optimization-reward gain Δ𝑅 shot reward = 𝑅 shot reward (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ′) − 𝑅 shot reward (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) above the acceptance 

> 12 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

margin and bounds decreases in guarded reward dimensions. The outer gate protects reusable behavior across videos, whereas the inner gates protect fidelity already present in the current representation. Appendix Sec. D, 

Dual-Loop Acceptance Gates , gives the exact rules, reversed-order consistency check, and thresholds. Algorithm 2 summarizes this shared cycle and repeats it until the refinement budget is exhausted or no failure remains. 

Algorithm 2 Inner Loop: Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement 

Require: Input video 𝑉 ; setting 𝛽 ∈ { KF , shot }; current KG representation 𝐺 ; fixed decoder Dec (·) ; loop reward 

> 𝑅 𝛽
> reward

Ensure: Refined KG representation 𝐺 ∗ 

> 𝑉,𝛽
> 1:

ˆ𝑉 ← Dec (𝐺 ) ⊲ Reconstruct the current representation  

> 2:

while KG-representation-refinement rounds remain do  

> 3:

F𝛽 ← Feedback 𝛽 (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 ) ⊲ Diagnose the current reconstruction; Eq. 12  

> 4:

if F𝛽 = ∅ then  

> 5:

break  

> 6:

end if  

> 7:

T𝐺 ← { Corr (𝜉 ) : 𝜉 ∈ F 𝛽 } 

> 8:

gasset text ← ∇ 𝐺  

> text

(T 𝐺 ) ⊲ Form asset-level textual-gradient feedback   

> 9: 𝐺 ′

← ProposeAsset (𝐺, gasset text ) ⊲ Revise the selected asset  

> 10:

ˆ𝑉 ′ ← Dec (𝐺 ′) ⊲ Reconstruct the candidate  

> 11:

Evaluate current and candidate reconstructions with 𝑅 𝛽  

> reward
> 12:

if Γinner = 1 then ⊲ Apply the setting-specific Anti-Degradation Gate  

> 13:

(𝐺, ˆ𝑉 ) ← ( 𝐺 ′, ˆ𝑉 ′) ⊲ Commit the accepted candidate  

> 14:

end if  

> 15:

end while  

> 16:

return 𝐺 

RQ2 (Sec. 5.3) isolates the effect of optional input-specific refinement both with and without policy pseudo-training. To support video-agent research and custom representation learning on user-supplied video clips, we open-source the complete AVA-Encoder framework and its graph data. 

## 5. Experiments 

We evaluate AVA-Encoder through four research questions (RQs) that progress from representation fidelity to mechanism analysis and downstream use. RQ1 asks whether AVA-Encoder improves reconstruction fidelity; RQ2 isolates the contributions of hierarchical understanding, the two optimization stages, and their gates; RQ3 examines whether the Film KG representation supports controlled, linked editing; and RQ4 tests whether the same representation can be reused by downstream agentic video generation systems. Accordingly, this section first establishes the shared experimental setup and then presents reconstruction results, ablations, graph-operability studies, and downstream-generation results in that order. 

5.1. Experiment Setup Data. We use six pseudo-training video clips and a non-overlapping evaluation collection of 18 video clips spanning varied content and forms, including animation, human-directed AI short films, and classic cinema. Both collections come from publicly available open-source data; Appendix Sec. H, Dataset and Reproducibility Details , provides the complete clip lists and benchmark inventory. 

Model configuration. We use fixed foundation models in five roles. Gemini-3.1-Pro-Preview (Google AI, 2026a) serves as the video-understanding model, performing film-, shot-, and keyframe-level analysis under the Agentic Video Encoder prompts, and separately as the evaluation model under frozen optimization-reward and final-evaluation protocols denoted 𝑅 reward and 𝑅 eval , respectively. Qwen-3.7-Plus (Alibaba Cloud, 2026b) serves as the modification model, proposing textual-gradient-guided revisions to the input-specific KG representation during Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement and to the trainable shot- and keyframe-level components 

> 13 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

of the Agentic Video Encoder policy during Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training; it does not score or accept its own revisions. Nano Banana Pro (Google AI, 2026b) and HappyHorse 1.0 (Alibaba Cloud, 2026a) are the shared image and reference-to-video generators, respectively. All foundation-model weights remain fixed: Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training updates only the textual 𝑃 shot and 𝑃 kf policy components while keeping 𝑃 film fixed, and optional Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement updates only the current video’s KG representation. Appendix Sec. F, Agentic Video Encoder System Prompts , maps the initial, pseudo-trained, and human-tuned policy conditions, while Appendix Sec. N, Complete System Prompts , reproduces the complete Agentic Video Encoder, optimization-reward, keyframe-comparison, and final-evaluation prompts. 

Representation budget. Every compared representation uses the same per-shot interface to the fixed decoder: at most 𝑁 ref = 5 newly generated reference keyframes and at most 𝑀 = 1200 shot-prompt tokens. These limits apply only to the representation-to-decoder interface; source material is available during representation construction and evaluation but is never passed to the reconstruction generators. Appendix Sec. G, Baseline Adaptation and Fairness , gives the complete shared-budget protocol. 

Evaluation. The final reconstruction evaluation 𝑅 eval uses four directions that cover different evidence: direct Video comparison (V), direct Keyframe comparison (KF), Video Back-Captioning (V-BC), and Keyframe Back-Captioning (KF-BC). V tests whether the representation keeps the audiovisual and temporal information needed to reconstruct the complete video; KF focuses on fine-grained static visual evidence that can be difficult to inspect in dense video. Because AVA-Encoder and the compared methods use text-centered structured representations, V-BC and KF-BC also compare the semantic facts recovered from independently generated captions. Each direction is scored over Character, Scene, Position, Motion, Audio, Style, Camera, and Narrative. Audio is not applicable to the keyframe-based directions, whose means therefore use the remaining seven dimensions. Since a vision-language model is less reliable when asked to assign one precise score directly to a complex image or video, a frozen VLM under fixed prompts produces fine-grained factual QA and checklist judgments rather than the reported scores themselves; deterministic machine rules then aggregate these judgments into the final direction and Overall scores. Appendix Sec. B, Reconstruction Evaluation Metrics , provides the complete fact-level scoring, averaging procedure, and human-alignment study; its Sec. B.4, System Prompts for Reconstruction Evaluation , identifies the matching prompts. 

Compared methods. We compare AVA-Encoder with VideoAnalyzer (Docusphere, 2026), Storyboard Stu-dio (BroderQi, 2026), and soap2soap (Song et al., 2026) using identical input test videos and a shared, fixed video generation decoder to evaluate their representation assets. Appendix Sec. G, Baseline Adaptation and Fairness , details the common source-pixel restriction, representation adaptation, shared generators, and temporal alignment. 

Automated editing. We qualitatively demonstrate the graph editor by changing a target KG node, automatically tracing the affected dependencies, and re-rendering only the linked assets. 

5.2. RQ1: Reconstruction Fidelity Overall result. Our ground-truth-anchored benchmark directly measures how faithfully each method recon-structs the source film. As shown in Table 1, AVA-Encoder outperforms every baseline in all four comparison directions. It improves over the strongest baseline by 21.1 points on Video, 34.2 on KF, 13.9 on V-BC, and 11.6 on KF-BC. Appendix Sec. I, Fine-Grained Reconstruction Results , reports the applicable dimension-level V and KF scores, while Appendix Sec. L, Additional Qualitative Results , provides six further reconstruction comparisons and graph-editing visualizations; Figure 3 shows a representative comparison here.                      

> 14 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning
> Comparison direction Method Video (%) ↑
> KF (%) ↑
> V-BC (%) ↑
> KF-BC (%) ↑
> Overall (%) ↑
> VideoAnalyzer (Docusphere, 2026) 26.1 28.5 9.7 21.7 21.5 Storyboard Studio (BroderQi, 2026) 16.4 28.6 9.6 23.0 19.4 soap2soap (Song et al., 2026) 36.7 39.5 15.8 21.3 28.3
> AVA-Encoder (ours) 57.8 73.7 29.7 34.6 49.0

Table 1 | Reconstruction fidelity scores on the ground-truth-anchored benchmark. The comparison directions are direct Video comparison (V), direct Keyframe comparison (KF), Video Back-Captioning (V-BC), and Keyframe Back-Captioning (KF-BC). Overall is their unweighted mean. 

Figure 3 | Visual comparison of reconstruction results between AVA-Encoder and baseline methods, illustrating superior fidelity in preserving fine-grained cinematic details, character identities, and visual consistency. 

5.3. RQ2: Contribution of the Two Optimization Stages Overall result. The two stages provide separate gains and perform best together. The reconstruction ablation covers the Agentic Video Encoder structure, Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training, Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement, and their acceptance gates. It also includes the Naive Agentic Video Encoder, which uses single-level understanding without hierarchical film–shot–keyframe encoding. 

Hierarchical understanding and policy evolution. The complete AVA-Encoder configuration performs best. The hierarchical policy-only configuration (45.8 Overall) exceeds the Naive Agentic Video Encoder (27.5) by 18.3 percentage points, or 66.5% relative, supporting the value of the fine-grained film–shot–keyframe context design. Under the controlled setting with Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement disabled, the policy produced by Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training improves upon the human-tuned Agentic Video Encoder from 44.4 to 45.8: a 1.4-point absolute and 3.2% relative improvement. Pseudo-training also reduces the shot-level system prompt from 31,336 to 8,052 tokens (74.3%) and the keyframe-level system prompt from 13,574 to 4,062 tokens (70.1%). 

Stage-separated loop effects. Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training improves the 18-clip non-overlapping downstream benchmark in both controlled settings after pseudo-training on six clips: without Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement, 45 .8 > 42 .4 gives a 3.4-point absolute and 8.0% relative gain; with it, 49 .0 > 45 .4 gives a 3.6-point absolute and 7.9% relative gain. Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement is also effective with and without policy pseudo-training: 49 .0 > 45 .8 gives 3.2 points and 7.0% relative with the pseudo-trained policy, while 45 .4 > 42 .4 gives 3.0 points and 7.1% relative with the initial policy. The resulting ordering, 49 .0 (both loops) > 45 .8 (policy pseudo-training only) > 45 .4 (KG refinement only) > 42 .4 (neither), shows that the two stage-separated loops provide gains from different sources; together they add 6.6 points, or 15.6% relative, over removing both.                                                                

> 15 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning Configuration Comparison direction Ablation setting Agentic Video Encoder / policy KG repre-sentation refinement Encoding policy pseudo-training Acceptance gates V (%) ↑KF (%) ↑
> V-BC (%) ↑
> KF-BC (%) ↑
> Overall (%) ↑
> Naive Agentic Video Encoder Single-level understanding Off Off Off 35.1 38.4 15.4 21.1 27.5 Remove Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training Hierarchical; 𝑃 0On Off Inner 52.7 71.8 23.9 33.1 45.4 Remove Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement Hierarchical; 𝑃 ∗Off On Outer 55.6 68.3 26.6 32.7 45.8 Remove both optimization loops Hierarchical; 𝑃 0Off Off Off 50.7 67.6 21.2 29.9 42.4 Human-tuned Agentic Video Encoder Hierarchical; human-tuned policy Off Off Off 53.5 68.1 25.8 30.2 44.4 Remove acceptance gates Hierarchical; 𝑃 ∗On On Off 53.1 67.2 24.3 29.4 43.5
> AVA-Encoder (full) Hierarchical; 𝑃 ∗On On Inner + outer 57.8 73.7 29.7 34.6 49.0

Table 2 | Ablation study on the reconstruction benchmark. The comparison directions are direct Video comparison (V), direct Keyframe comparison (KF), Video Back-Captioning (V-BC), and Keyframe Back-Captioning (KF-BC). The configuration columns separately report the Agentic Video Encoder policy, Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement, Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training, and applicable acceptance gates. Overall is the unweighted mean of the four directions. 

Acceptance gates. AVA-Encoder improves from 43.5 without gates to 49.0 with both gates, an absolute gain of 5.5 points and a 12.6% relative improvement, while increasing every comparison direction. Without the gate for Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement, target-dimension gains could coincide with declines in non-target dimensions; the anti-degradation gate prevents this trade-off. Without the gate for Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training, later policy updates could reduce performance on previously pseudo-trained clips; the anti-forgetting gate prevents this historical regression. Appendix Sec. J, Ablation Definitions and Effect Sizes , formally defines every compared configuration and summarizes the corresponding effect sizes. 

5.4. RQ3: Film KG Operability Overall result. The graph supports controlled edits that remain consistent across linked shots. Because the KG explicitly records asset and production dependencies, a local edit can be propagated to every affected shot while leaving unrelated assets unchanged. The same topology-aware interface supports character replacement, visual-treatment replacement, plot modification, and fine-grained adjustment of cinematographic language. Figure 4 shows two identity replacements across linked shots, while Figure 5 shows a visual-treatment edit propagated through the corresponding style states and rendered assets. In the three shown examples, the target change remains consistent across the affected sequence while unrelated characters, scenes, compositions, and events are preserved. Appendix Sec. K specifies the stored schema and registry mapping, while Appendix Sec. L.2, Graph-Topology Editing , defines the affected-subgraph rule and provides the corresponding graph and interface visualizations. 

> 16 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning
> (a) Identity replacement in a six-shot sequence.
> (b) Cross-domain identity replacement in a classical-drama sequence.

Figure 4 | Graph-topology identity editing. Changing a registered character jointly selects and updates the dependent keyframes and shots. The replacement character’s registry description can be completed either manually or automatically by an LLM; given this description, an LLM follows the graph dependencies to modify the character’s appearance, actions, dialogue, and other affected attributes across the relevant shots. Panels (a) and (b) preserve unrelated characters, scenes, compositions, and event structure while consistently propagating the requested identity. 

Figure 5 | Graph-topology visual-treatment editing. A visual-treatment edit follows the corresponding style-state transitions and asset references, applying a consistent treatment to the linked sequence without rewriting each shot independently. 

> 17 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

5.5. RQ4: Downstream Reuse Overall result. The same representation improves every tested downstream generation system. We use the same minimal, system-independent input for every evaluated agentic video generation framework: before generation, the complete AVA-Encoder representation file is supplied once as text, with only a basic one-sentence request that the framework refer to this representation for the current case. No framework-specific representation adapter or prompt tuning is introduced. Gemini-3.1-Pro-Preview evaluates the generated videos under fixed reference-free evaluation rules. This single textual input improves Overall for every framework in Table 3; Appendix Sec. M, Downstream Story-Video Evaluation Detail , defines the evaluation rules, grade conversion, and comparison condition.                                                                 

> Evaluation dimension Setting Character ↑Plot ↑Camera ↑Style ↑Audiovisual ↑Overall ↑
> MovieAgent (Wu et al., 2025) No ref. 3.33 1.50 3.75 2.25 1.50 2.47 Asset refs. 4.00 4.00 3.75 3.00 1.75 3.30 FilmAgent (Xu et al., 2025) No ref. 1.67 1.33 3.75 1.50 1.00 1.85 Asset refs. 3.67 2.00 4.00 3.50 1.00 2.83 Anim-Director (Li et al., 2024) No ref. 1.00 2.50 3.50 1.25 1.00 1.85 Asset refs. 4.00 1.00 4.00 2.50 1.00 2.50 VideoStudio (Long et al., 2024) No ref. 3.00 1.00 3.25 1.25 1.00 1.90 Asset refs. 1.00 1.00 3.75 2.75 1.25 1.95

Table 3 | Downstream story-video quality (1–4) without and with a single textual injection of the complete AVA-Encoder representation. Bold marks improvement over the corresponding no-reference setting; all evaluated frameworks improve Overall. 

## 6. Conclusion 

AVA-Encoder introduces a new agent-native video representation approach that connects complex film content with agent-based editing through a structured Film KG representation and agentic auto-encoding. By combining a hierarchical Agentic Video Encoder with gated dual-loop textual-gradient evolution, AVA-Encoder achieves an Overall reconstruction score of 49.0%, a 20.7-percentage-point absolute improvement over the strongest external baseline at 28.3%. In the controlled policy-only setting, the pseudo-trained Agentic Video Encoder policy reaches 45.8%, compared with 44.4% for the independently human-tuned policy, while using 74.3% fewer shot-level and 70.1% fewer keyframe-level system-prompt tokens. Its structured representation also enables graph-based linked editing and consistently improves generated story-video quality across several creative agent frameworks. 

## References 

Alibaba Cloud. HappyHorse 1.0 reference-to-video model. Alibaba Cloud Model Studio Doc-umentation, 2026a. URL https : / / www . alibabacloud . com / help / en / model-studio / video-generate-edit-model .Alibaba Cloud. Qwen3.7-Plus Model Information. Alibaba Cloud Model Studio Documentation, 2026b. URL 

https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/model-studio/qwen3-7-plus .Kirolos Ataallah, Xiaoqian Shen, Eslam Abdelrahman, Elias Sleiman, Mingchen Zhuge, Jian Ding, Deyao Zhu, Jürgen Schmidhuber, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Goldfish: Vision-language understanding of arbitrarily long videos. In Computer Vision – ECCV 2024 , pp. 251–267. Springer, 2024. 

> 18 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

BroderQi. Storyboard studio: Ai-powered professional storyboarding workbench. GitHub repository, 2026. URL https://github.com/BroderQi/Storyboard .Tim Brooks, Bill Peebles, Connor Holmes, Will DePue, Yufei Guo, Li Jing, David Schnurr, Joe Taylor, Troy Luhman, Eric Luhman, Clarence Ng, Ricky Wang, and Aditya Ramesh. Video generation mod-els as world simulators. OpenAI Technical Report, 2024. URL https://openai.com/index/ video-generation-models-as-world-simulators/ . OpenAI Sora. ByteDance Seed Team. Seedance 2.0. Official Model Page, 2026. URL https://seed.bytedance.com/ seedance2_0 .Jiwan Chung and Youngjae Yu. Long story short: A summarize-then-search method for long video question answering. In Proceedings of the British Machine Vision Conference (BMVC) , 2023. comfyanonymous and ComfyUI contributors. ComfyUI: The most powerful and modular diffusion model gui and backend. https://github.com/comfyanonymous/ComfyUI , 2023. Accessed: 2026-06-29. Docusphere. video-analyzer: Agentic video transcript generation. GitHub repository, 2026. URL https: //github.com/docusphere/video-analyzer .Google AI. Gemini 3.1 Pro Preview. Google AI for Developers Documentation, 2026a. URL https://ai. google.dev/gemini-api/docs/models/gemini-3.1-pro-preview .Google AI. Gemini 3 Pro Image (Nano Banana Pro). Google AI for Developers Documentation, 2026b. URL 

https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/models/gemini-3-pro-image .Google DeepMind. Veo: Our state-of-the-art video generation model. Google DeepMind Technical Report, 2024. URL https://deepmind.google/technologies/veo/ .Bo He, Hengduo Li, Young Kyun Jang, Menglin Jia, Xuefei Cao, Ashish Shah, Abhinav Shrivastava, and Ser-Nam Lim. MA-LMM: Memory-augmented large multimodal model for long-term video understanding. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pp. 13504–13514, 2024. Kaiming He, Xinlei Chen, Saining Xie, Yanghao Li, Piotr Dollár, and Ross Girshick. Masked autoencoders are scalable vision learners. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , 2022. Qingqiu Huang, Yu Xiong, Anyi Rao, Jiaze Wang, and Dahua Lin. MovieNet: A holistic dataset for movie understanding. In Computer Vision – ECCV 2020 , pp. 709–727. Springer, 2020. Weijie Kong, Qi Tian, Zijian Zhang, Rox Min, Zuozhuo Dai, et al. HunyuanVideo: A systematic framework for large video generative models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.03603 .Kuaishou Technology. Kling: Kuaishou text-to-video generation model. Kuaishou Technical Report, 2024. URL 

https://kling.kuaishou.com/ .Jinxiang Lai, Zexin Lu, Jiajun He, Rongwei Quan, Wenzhe Zhao, Qinyu Yang, Qi Chen, Qin Lin, Chuyue Li, Tao Gao, Yuhao Shan, Shuai Shao, Song Guo, and Qinglin Lu. VisionCreator: A native visual-generation agentic model with understanding, thinking, planning and creation, 2026. Yunxin Li, Haoyuan Shi, Baotian Hu, Longyue Wang, Jiashun Zhu, Jinyi Xu, Zhen Zhao, and Min Zhang. Anim-Director: A large multimodal model powered agent for controllable animation video generation. In 

SIGGRAPH Asia 2024 Conference Papers . ACM, 2024. doi: 10.1145/3680528.3687688. Han Lin, Abhay Zala, Jaemin Cho, and Mohit Bansal. VideoDirectorGPT: Consistent multi-scene video generation via LLM-guided planning. In Conference on Language Modeling (COLM) , 2024. Fuchen Long, Zhaofan Qiu, Ting Yao, and Tao Mei. VideoStudio: Generating consistent-content and multi-scene videos. In European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) . Springer, 2024. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-73027-6_ 27. 

> 19 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Louis Mahon and Mirella Lapata. ScreenWriter: Automatic screenplay generation and movie summarisation, 2024. Ben Mildenhall, Pratul P. Srinivasan, Matthew Tancik, Jonathan T. Barron, Ravi Ramamoorthi, and Ren Ng. NeRF: Representing scenes as neural radiance fields for view synthesis. In European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) , 2020. Adam Polyak, Amit Zohar, Andrew Brown, Andros Tjandra, Animesh Sinha, et al. Movie Gen: A cast of media foundation models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13720 .Rui Qian, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Zang, Shuangrui Ding, Dahua Lin, and Jiaqi Wang. Streaming long video understanding with large language models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 2024. Enxin Song, Wenhao Chai, Guanhong Wang, Yucheng Zhang, Haoyang Zhou, Feiyang Wu, Haozhe Chi, Xun Guo, Tian Ye, Yanting Zhang, Yan Lu, Jenq-Neng Hwang, and Gaoang Wang. MovieChat: From dense token to sparse memory for long video understanding. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pp. 18221–18232, 2024. Yiren Song, Huilin Zhong, Kevin Qinghong Lin, Haofan Wang, and Mike Zheng Shou. Soap2Soap: Long cinematic video remaking via multi-agent collaboration, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.17423 .Zhan Tong, Yibing Song, Jue Wang, and Limin Wang. VideoMAE: Masked autoencoders are data-efficient learners for self-supervised video pre-training. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) ,2022. Wan Team, Ang Wang, Baole Ai, Bin Wen, Chaojie Mao, et al. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20314 .Haozhe Wang, Long Li, Chao Qu, Weidi Xu, Fengming Zhu, Wei Chu, and Fangzhen Lin. To code or not to code? adaptive tool integration for math language models via expectation-maximization. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025 , pp. 3060–3075, 2025. Haozhe Wang, Weijia Feng, Jinpeng Yu, Che Liu, Ping Nie, Fangzhen Lin, Jiaming Liu, Ruihua Huang, Jimmy Lin, Wenhu Chen, et al. Search beyond what can be taught: Evolving the knowledge boundary in agentic visual generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2607.05382 , 2026a. Haozhe Wang, Haoran Que, Qixin Xu, Minghao Liu, Wangchunshu Zhou, Jiazhan Feng, Wanjun Zhong, Wei Ye, Tong Yang, Wenhao Huang, et al. Reverse-engineered reasoning for open-ended generation. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2026b. Haozhe Wang, Cong Wei, Weiming Ren, Jiaming Liu, Fangzhen Lin, and Wenhu Chen. Rationalrewards: Reasoning rewards scale visual generation both training and test time. arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.11626 ,2026c. Haozhe Wang, Qixin Xu, Changpeng Wang, Taofeng Xue, Chong Peng, Wenhu Chen, and Fangzhen Lin. Bad seeing or bad thinking? rewarding perception for multimodal reasoning. In Proceedings of the 43rd International Conference on Machine Learning , 2026d. Weijia Wu, Zeyu Zhu, and Mike Zheng Shou. Automated movie generation via multi-agent CoT planning, 2025. Zhifei Xie, Daniel Tang, Dingwei Tan, Jacques Klein, Tegawendé F. Bissyandé, and Saad Ezzini. DreamFactory: Pioneering multi-scene long video generation with a multi-agent framework, 2024. Zhenran Xu, Longyue Wang, Jifang Wang, Zhouyi Li, Senbao Shi, Xue Yang, Yiyu Wang, Baotian Hu, Jun Yu, and Min Zhang. FilmAgent: A multi-agent framework for end-to-end film automation in virtual 3D spaces, 2025. Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Wendi Zheng, Ming Ding, Shiyu Huang, Jiazheng Xu, Yuanming Yang, Wenyi Hong, Xiaohan Zhang, Guanyu Feng, Da Yin, Xiaotao Gu, Yuxuan Zhang, Weihan Wang, Yean Cheng, Ting Liu, Bin Xu, Yuxiao Dong, and Jie Tang. CogVideoX: Text-to-video diffusion models with an expert transformer. In 

International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2025. 

> 20 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Lijun Yu, Yong Cheng, Kihyuk Sohn, José Lezama, Han Zhang, Huiwen Chang, Alexander G. Hauptmann, Ming-Hsuan Yang, Yuan Hao, Irfan Essa, and Lu Jiang. MAGVIT: Masked generative video transformer. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , 2023. Zhengqing Yuan, Yixin Liu, Yihan Cao, Weixiang Sun, Haolong Jia, Ruoxi Chen, Zhaoxu Cai, Bin Lin, Li Yuan, Lifang He, Chi Wang, Yanfang Ye, and Lichao Sun. Mora: Enabling generalist video generation via a multi-agent framework, 2024. Mert Yuksekgonul, Federico Bianchi, Joseph Boen, Sheng Liu, Zhi Huang, Carlos Guestrin, and James Zou. Textgrad: Automatic "differentiation" via text, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07496 .Hang Zhang, Xin Li, and Lidong Bing. Video-LLaMA: An instruction-tuned audio-visual language model for video understanding. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations (EMNLP) , pp. 543–553, 2023. Peiyuan Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Bo Li, Guangtao Zeng, Jingkang Yang, Yuanhan Zhang, Ziyue Wang, Haoran Tan, Chunyuan Li, and Ziwei Liu. Long context transfer from language to vision, 2024a. LongVA. Yuanhan Zhang, Jinming Wu, Wei Li, Bo Li, Zejun Ma, Ziwei Liu, and Chunyuan Li. LLaVA-Video: Video instruction tuning with synthetic data, 2024b. Shaobin Zhuang, Kunchang Li, Xinyuan Chen, Yaohui Wang, Ziwei Liu, Yu Qiao, and Yali Wang. Vlogger: Make your dream a vlog. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pp. 8806–8817, 2024. 

> 21 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Organization and relation to the main paper. The main paper presents the task formulation (Sec. 3), the AVA-Encoder architecture (Sec. 4), and the experiments (Sec. 5). This supplementary material expands the corresponding components listed below. 

Optimization and evaluation. 

• Section A supplements main-paper Sec. 4.3 and Algorithms 1 and 2 by defining the natural-language feedback records used for Agentic Video Encoder policy and KG-representation updates. • Section B supplements main-paper Secs. 3.2, 4.3.1, and 5.1–5.2 by defining the four reported reconstruc-tion directions, their applicable cinematic dimensions, fact-level scoring, score aggregation, and evaluator alignment with human judgments. • Section C supplements main-paper Sec. 4.3.1 by defining the loop-facing optimization reward 𝑅 reward , its QA-based instances, and its connection to the textual gradients and scores in Algorithms 1 and 2. • Section D supplements main-paper Secs. 4.3.3 and 4.3.2 by specifying the acceptance rules for Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement and Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training, together with the sequential pseudo-training procedure. • Section E supplements main-paper Sec. 4.1 by specifying adaptive shot segmentation, bounded keyframe selection, three-level specialized understanding, inter-level context injection, and deterministic KG assembly. • Section F supplements main-paper Sec. 4.1 and the policy conditions compared in RQ2 (Sec. 5.3) by identifying the initial, pseudo-trained, and human-tuned Agentic Video Encoder system prompts. 

Experimental setup and numerical results. 

• Section G supplements main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) and RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) by describing baseline adaptation, shared generators, temporal alignment, and the common evaluation setting. • Section H supplements main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) and the dataset contribution by describing the released Film KG dataset, source-video collection, reconstruction benchmark inventory, pseudo-training stream, and held-out evaluation split. • Section I supplements main-paper RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) and Table 1 by reporting the direct-video and keyframe scores for every applicable cinematic dimension. • Section J supplements main-paper RQ2 (Sec. 5.3) and Table 2 by defining each ablation configuration and reporting its absolute and relative differences from AVA-Encoder. 

Film KG and qualitative evidence. 

• Section K supplements main-paper Sec. 4.2 and RQ3 (Sec. 5.4) by specifying the stored node–edge schema and graph construction and propagation rules. • Section L supplements main-paper RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) and RQ3 (Sec. 5.4) with reconstruction comparisons, graph visualizations, the affected-subgraph rule, and examples of identity and visual-treatment editing. • Section M supplements main-paper RQ4 (Sec. 5.5) by defining the reference-free story-video evaluation dimensions, grade conversion, and the “Asset refs.” condition. 

Complete experimental specification. 

• Section N supplements main-paper Secs. 4.1, 4.3.1, and 5.1 with complete direct English translations of the Chinese system prompts used for the Agentic Video Encoder, 𝑅 reward , and 𝑅 eval .

## A. Textual Gradients and AVA-Encoder Self-Optimization 

This section supplements main-paper Sec. 4.3, Dual-Loop Textual-Gradient Evolution , and makes the feedback objects used by Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training and Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement in Algorithms 1 and 2 explicit.     

> 22 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning
> Optimization setting Reconstruction feedback Fact selected for correction KG refinement: keyframe Direct GT–current-keyframe difference diagnosis A grounded difference that specifies its dimension and image location together with the GT and current-reconstruction observations. KG refinement: video shot Fixed shot-reward checklist A GT-derived reward item judged as mismatch or absent in the reconstructed shot. Policy pseudo-training Frozen video QA banks over the current video A question whose answer on a reconstructed shot differs from its GT-derived expected answer.

Table 4 | Reconstruction feedback used by Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement and Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training. Each row specifies which grounded reconstruction failure supplies a correction record. 

A.1. TextGrad Background 

This subsection supplies the TextGrad definition needed to interpret the natural-language gradients introduced in main-paper Sec. 4.3. TextGrad represents an LLM workflow as a directed computation graph whose variables may contain text (Yuksekgonul et al., 2024). Its evaluation feedback is written in natural language and passed backward to the text variable that should be revised. For a text variable 𝑧 , the relation between evaluation, textual gradient, and revision is summarized by 

gtext (𝑧 ) := ∇text LTG (𝑧 ), 𝑧 + := UpdateText (𝑧, gtext (𝑧 )) . (14) Here, LTG is the illustrative TextGrad evaluation objective, ∇text denotes backward assignment of natural-language feedback, and gtext (𝑧 ) is the resulting textual gradient for 𝑧 . UpdateText revises 𝑧 according to that feedback, producing 𝑧 +. The textual gradient is not a numerical derivative; it identifies the error caused by 𝑧 

and states how 𝑧 should change. 

A.2. Structured Textual Gradients in AVA-Encoder 

This subsection expands main-paper Sec. 4.3 and Algorithms 1 and 2 by defining the correction records and feedback operators used for their policy- and asset-level textual gradients. AVA-Encoder derives textual gradients from differences between the ground-truth (GT) and reconstructed videos. The two settings of Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement and Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training obtain this difference from different reconstruction feedback. The keyframe setting directly diagnoses evidence-grounded differences between the GT keyframe and the current reconstructed keyframe. The video-shot setting uses mismatched or absent facts from its shot-reward checklist, and policy pseudo-training uses failed video QA facts collected over the current video. The main-paper operator Feedback 𝛽 in Eq. 12 is shorthand for the first two rows of Table 4: 𝛽 = KF selects the keyframe difference diagnosis, whereas 

𝛽 = shot selects the failed shot-reward facts. The table defines these sources before introducing their common mathematical form. Each atomic question in the frozen QA bank corresponds to a single fact-level reconstruction check. More generally, AVA-Encoder treats a grounded keyframe difference, a failed QA check, or a failed video-shot reward item as a fact-level reconstruction failure. These failures are the basic units from which the textual-gradient procedures construct correction records. Regardless of its source, each selected fact 𝜉 𝑖 is written as the same correction record introduced in main-paper Eq. 8: 

a𝑖 := Corr (𝜉 𝑖 ) =



𝑑 𝑖 , 𝑢 GT  

> 𝑖

, 𝑢 rec  

> 𝑖

, 𝑒 𝑖 , ℎ 𝑖 



. (15) Here, a𝑖 is one atomic correction record, 𝑖 indexes one selected fact from Table 4, 𝑑 𝑖 is its evaluation dimension, 𝑢 GT  

> 𝑖

is the GT-derived fact, 𝑢 rec  

> 𝑖

is the corresponding fact observed in the reconstruction, 𝑒 𝑖 is the 

> 23 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

supporting visual or audio evidence, and ℎ𝑖 is the requested correction. Let T𝐺 contain records assigned to KG assets and let Tpol contain records assigned to the trainable components of the Agentic Video Encoder policy 𝑃 .The textual-gradient operators organize these records into the two natural-language revision instructions used by the main-paper algorithms: 

T𝐺 := {a𝑖 : 𝜉 𝑖 is assigned to a KG asset },

Tpol := {a𝑖 : 𝜉 𝑖 is assigned to 𝑃 },

gasset text := ∇𝐺  

> text

(T 𝐺 ),

gpolicy text := ∇𝑃  

> text

(T pol ),𝐺 ′ := ProposeAsset (𝐺, gasset text ),𝑃 ′ := ProposePolicy (𝑃, gpolicy text ).

(16) 

𝐺 and 𝐺 ′ are the current and candidate KG representations, while 𝑃 and 𝑃 ′ are the current and candidate complete encoding policies. ∇𝐺  

> text

and ∇𝑃  

> text

are natural-language feedback operators rather than numerical derivatives: they turn the records in T𝐺 and Tpol into asset- and policy-level revision instructions. The latter is applied in separate prompt-rewriting branches: one revises 𝑃 shot with 𝑃 kf fixed, and the other revises 𝑃 kf with 

𝑃 shot fixed; both preserve 𝑃 film . Their outputs are exactly gasset text and gpolicy text in Algorithms 2 and 1, respectively. Audio corrections include transcript evidence. Candidate KG representations and policies are evaluated before acceptance, and dimension weights remain fixed throughout pseudo-training. 

## B. Reconstruction Evaluation Metrics 

This section supplements main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) and RQ1, Reconstruction Fidelity (Sec. 5.2). The main paper evaluates reconstruction along four comparison directions—Video (V), Keyframe (KF), Video back-captioning (V-BC), and Keyframe back-captioning (KF-BC)—while splitting errors into a shared set of film dimensions. This section defines those directions and their applicable dimensions without introducing a separate evaluation task. The final reconstruction evaluation is denoted 𝑅 eval (· , ·) in main-paper Sec. 4.3.1. It uses the frozen Gemini-3.1-Pro-Preview multimodal model (Google AI, 2026a) with reconstruction-evaluation prompts, separately from the same model’s video-understanding role. The VLM is the fact-level judge, not a black-box generator of the reported benchmark score: under fixed prompts, it constructs or extracts atomic source-grounded facts and assigns each reconstruction a categorical fact judgment with supporting evidence. The model outputs these judgments, while fixed deterministic machine rules map the categories to the numerical values in Eqs. 19 and 20 and perform the aggregation in Eq. 21. This decomposition avoids asking the VLM for one direct score on a complex image or video. 𝑅 eval is used for final reporting, while the loop-facing optimization reward 𝑅 reward 

is defined separately in Sec. C. 

B.1. Reconstruction Directions and Evaluation Dimensions 

This subsection supplements main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) and connects its four reconstruction directions to the reconstruction residual dimensions defined in Sec. 4.3.1. We evaluate every representation system from four directions: direct Video (V), direct Keyframe (KF), Video back-captioning (V-BC), and Keyframe back-captioning (KF-BC). Let 

Ddir := {V, KF , V-BC , KF-BC },

D := {Character , Scene , Position , Motion ,

Audio , Style , Camera , Narrative }.

(17) The four directions examine different types of evidence. A high-quality agentic video representation should retain the audiovisual and temporal information needed to reconstruct the complete source video, which motivates direct V evaluation. Because dense multimodal video makes small static visual details difficult to          

> 24 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning
> Dimension Evaluated attributes Character Face and identity, body/build, clothing, expression, gaze, and pose. Scene Scene type, background and set dressing, spatial layout, and environmental elements. Position Absolute character positions, inter-character spatial relations, and foreground/background depth. Motion Actions, interactions, motion direction, and speed; only static action/pose evidence is used for KF. Audio Speaker–dialogue–voice association, background music, and sound effects; N/A for KF and KF-BC. Style Artistic treatment, texture, color and temperature, illumination, contrast, and light direction. Camera Shot language, camera direction/speed, viewpoint, composition, and shot scale; only static attributes are used for KF. Narrative Visible events, event ordering, and emotional tone.

Table 5 | Evaluation dimensions shared by the four reconstruction directions. Video directions use all eight dimensions; keyframe directions use seven because Audio is N/A. inspect fully, direct KF evaluation isolates identity, object, layout, composition, lighting, and texture evidence. AVA-Encoder and all compared baselines also use text-centered structured representations; V-BC and KF-BC therefore compare recoverable atomic facts in a common text space rather than requiring their internal structures to match. Together, the four directions measure end-to-end reconstruction, fine-grained visual fidelity, and text-level meaning consistency. 

Ddir is the set of reconstruction directions reported in Table 1 of the main paper, and D is the shared set of evaluation dimensions used to resolve reval in Sec. 4.3.1. The directions combine two media—video shots and keyframes—with two observation spaces—direct comparison and blind back-captioning: • Video (V) directly compares a source video shot with its reconstructed shot. The evaluator constructs source-grounded visual and audio checks and verifies each check against the reconstruction. • Keyframe (KF) directly compares a source keyframe with its reconstructed keyframe. We use KF for keyframe throughout the remainder of the appendix; only evidence observable in a static image is evaluated. • Video back-captioning (V-BC) describes the source and reconstructed video shots independently and compares atomic facts extracted from the two descriptions. • Keyframe back-captioning (KF-BC) applies the same independent description and atomic-fact compari-son to the source and reconstructed keyframes. In the two back-captioning directions, each captioner observes only one side of the comparison. This separation prevents source information from entering the reconstruction description before atomic-fact scoring. Video directions use all dimensions in D. A keyframe has no audio, so KF and KF-BC use D \ { Audio },mark Audio as N/A, and average seven dimensions. Motion and Camera in the keyframe directions retain only attributes observable in a static image; cross-frame speed and camera movement are not scored. 

B.2. Direct V and KF Scoring 

This subsection specifies the fact-level scoring used for the direct Video (V) and Keyframe (KF) directions in main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) and for their results in RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) and Table 1. For each applicable dimension 𝑑 ∈ D , the evaluator first sees only the GT material and produces a checklist  

> 𝐶 𝑑

of independently verifiable atomic facts. Here, a checklist is simply the set of concrete GT facts that must be checked for one dimension, such as a character identity, an object position, or a dialogue line. The construction prompt requires at least one valid item for every applicable dimension, so |𝐶 𝑑 | ≥ 1. Critical identity, central action, scene, style, and dialogue facts form the subset 𝐶 crit  

> 𝑑

. The evaluator then examines the reconstruction and assigns every fact 𝑐 ∈ 𝐶 𝑑 a verdict with visible or audible evidence. The numerical score for one fact is 

> 𝑤

(𝑐 ) =



1, match ,

0.5, partial ,

0, mismatch or absent .

(18) 

> 25 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Here, 𝑤 (𝑐 ) is the fidelity score assigned to checklist item 𝑐 : a complete match receives 1, a partial match receives 0.5, and an incorrect or missing fact receives 0. The dimension score first averages the fact scores and then applies a cap when a critical fact is incorrect or missing:  

> 𝜙 raw
> 𝑑

= 1

|𝐶 𝑑 |∑︁ 𝑐 ∈𝐶 𝑑 

> 𝑤

(𝑐 ),𝜙 𝑑 =

(

min (𝜙 raw   

> 𝑑 ,

0.4), ∃𝑐 ∈ 𝐶 crit  

> 𝑑

: 𝑤 (𝑐 ) = 0,𝜙 raw   

> 𝑑 ,

otherwise .

(19)  

> 𝐶 𝑑

is the checklist for dimension 𝑑 , |𝐶 𝑑 | is its number of items, and 𝐶 crit  

> 𝑑

⊆ 𝐶 𝑑 is the subset marked critical.  

> 𝜙 raw
> 𝑑

is the item average and 𝜙 𝑑 is the reported dimension-fidelity score. The cap prevents a collection of minor matches from compensating when a reconstruction-critical fact is not satisfied. 

B.3. Blind Back-Captioning Scoring 

This subsection specifies the fact-level scoring used for the Video and Keyframe back-captioning directions in main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) and for the V-BC and KF-BC results in RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) and Table 1. For V-BC and KF-BC, source and reconstruction are independently described for each evaluated attribute in Table 5 using concrete, verifiable statements. Atomic facts are extracted from the source description, and the reconstruction description labels each fact as a hit, conflict, or missing. The source-fact extraction prompt requires at least one valid fact for every applicable dimension, so 𝑛 facts ≥ 1. The back-captioning score is the matched-fact rate with an additional penalty for contradictions:  

> 𝜙 fact

= clip 

 𝑛 hit − 0.5𝑛 conflict  

> 𝑛 facts
> ,

0, 1

 

> .

(20)  

> 𝑛 facts

is the number of atomic facts extracted from the source description, 𝑛 hit counts facts reproduced by the reconstruction, and 𝑛 conflict counts contradicted facts. clip (𝑥, 0, 1) limits 𝑥 to the interval [0, 1]; facts not mentioned by the reconstruction contribute neither a match nor a contradiction. Thus, a contradiction is penalized more strongly than an omission. KF-BC again uses seven dimensions and reports Audio as N/A. 

B.4. System Prompts for Reconstruction Evaluation 

This subsection documents the frozen system prompts used by the final reconstruction evaluation 𝑅 eval in main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1). The system prompts used during the reported experiments were written in Chinese. Complete direct English translations are reproduced in Sec. N, and every compared representation system uses the same frozen prompts. 

B.5. Reconstruction-Benchmark Aggregation 

This subsection explains how the fine-grained judgments produced by 𝑅 eval are converted step by step into the V, KF, V-BC, KF-BC, and Overall scores reported in Table 1 of the main paper. The averaging proceeds from facts to dimensions, from dimensions to shots or keyframes, from these units to video cases, and finally from case-level results to the four reconstruction directions and their Overall score. The reconstruction benchmark compares four representation systems: AVA-Encoder, VideoAnalyzer, Sto-ryboard Studio, and soap2soap. Let 𝑚 index a representation system and let 𝑢 ∈ D dir index a reconstruction direction defined in Eq. 17. Each system retains its own shot segmentation and keyframe-selection policy. Its reconstruction is therefore compared with the source intervals and source keyframes selected by that same policy; outputs from different systems are not forced into an artificial one-to-one temporal alignment. All four systems nevertheless receive the same source videos and use the same frozen generation backbones. 

> 26 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Scores are averaged in the order fact, dimension, shot, case, and direction. For system 𝑚 , video case 𝑣 , shot 

𝑠 , and direction 𝑢 , let D𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢 ⊆ D contain the applicable dimensions. Let 𝜓 𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢,𝑑 denote the dimension score: it is 𝜙 𝑑 from Eq. 19 for V and KF, and 𝜙 fact from Eq. 20 for V-BC and KF-BC. Every evaluated unit contains at least one applicable dimension, and every one of the 18 cases contains at least one evaluated shot or keyframe in each direction. Hence, all sets used for division below are non-empty. The remaining averages are 

𝐵 𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢 := 1

|D 𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢 |∑︁ 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢 

𝜓 𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢,𝑑 ,𝐵 𝑚,𝑣,𝑢 := 1

|S 𝑚,𝑣,𝑢 |∑︁ 𝑠 ∈ S 𝑚,𝑣,𝑢 

𝐵 𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢 ,𝐵 𝑚,𝑢 := 1

|X 𝑚,𝑢 |∑︁ 𝑣 ∈ X 𝑚,𝑢 

𝐵 𝑚,𝑣,𝑢 ,𝐵 overall  

> 𝑚

:= 1

|D dir |∑︁ 𝑢 ∈ D dir 

𝐵 𝑚,𝑢 .

(21) 

S𝑚,𝑣,𝑢 is the set of evaluated shots or selected keyframes for system 𝑚 in video case 𝑣 and direction 𝑢 , and 

X𝑚,𝑢 is its set of evaluated video cases. 𝐵 𝑚,𝑣,𝑠,𝑢 , 𝐵 𝑚,𝑣,𝑢 , and 𝐵 𝑚,𝑢 are the shot-, case-, and direction-level scores, respectively; 𝐵 overall  

> 𝑚

is the unweighted mean of the four direction scores reported as Overall in Table 1 of the main paper. 

B.6. Alignment with Human Evaluation 

This subsection supplements evaluator validation in main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) by defining the blinded pairwise study and the reported human-evaluation agreement. Each human-evaluation trial is a blinded triple containing a GT keyframe or shot video and two generated candidates, A and B, whose source systems are hidden. Two expert annotators conducted the study using a mutually blinded rotating-labeling protocol: neither saw the candidate system identities or the other expert’s labels during annotation. For each triple, the human annotator selects the candidate closer to GT. The automatic evaluator independently scores A and B, and the trial agrees when the candidate judged closer to GT receives the higher machine score. All 730 triples are included in the denominator. Machine and human rankings agree on 710, yielding 710 /730 = 97 .260%, reported as 97.3% human-evaluation agreement . This statistic measures agreement between the automatic ranking and the human preference ranking; it is not inter-annotator agreement and does not evaluate 𝑅 reward used during pseudo-training. The 129 shots and 246 keyframes describe the source benchmark inventory; the 730 blinded triples are the denominator of this separate pairwise human-evaluation agreement study. 

## C. Reconstruction Reward for Loop Optimization 

This section expands the loop-facing optimization reward 𝑅 reward introduced in main-paper Sec. 4.3.1 and specifies how diagnostic evidence and acceptance scores enter Algorithms 1 and 2. Both 𝑅 eval and 𝑅 reward are derived from differences between a source and its reconstruction, but they are methodologically distinct. 𝑅 eval denotes the shared four-direction benchmark protocol and is used only for final cross-system reporting. 𝑅 reward denotes the optimization signal used inside the loops: its failed items diagnose the incumbent, and its scalar value verifies candidate updates. The outer loop and keyframe verification use frozen QA banks, while video-shot refinement uses a fixed shot-reward checklist. We keep these symbols separate throughout the paper regardless of any shared low-level infrastructure. For the QA-based instances, each selected keyframe or shot is decomposed into approximately 30 binary questions, with each question testing one observable fact. This avoids relying on one direct score for a complex image or video and gives the loop both a more precise reward and a specific error to correct. The atomic bank is generated once from GT and then frozen. Every current and candidate reconstruction is evaluated 

> 27 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Final evaluation 𝑅 eval Optimization reward 𝑅 reward 

Purpose Final comparison and per-dimension analysis Diagnosis and candidate acceptance during self-optimization Atomic judgment units Source-grounded facts in each direction and dimension Frozen QA facts for the outer/KF settings; fixed reward-checklist facts for shot refinement Primary benefit Broad, common benchmark coverage Localized correction evidence and comparison across rounds Use Reported tables and per-case analysis Diagnosis and candidate selection in both loops 

Table 6 | Two methodologically distinct signals built from the reconstruction residual: 𝑅 reward is used for optimization, whereas 𝑅 eval is used for final reporting. against the same questions, preventing question-set changes from entering the reward difference and giving the optimization loop a stable signal. Table 6 summarizes the distinct purposes, judgment units, and uses of the final evaluation and loop-optimization signals. For the QA-based instances of 𝑅 reward , a source video 𝑉 has a frozen bank containing 𝐾 ≥ 1 atomic questions by construction. Its binary residual vector and reward are defined below. This is the sample-index-free form of Eq. 9 in the main paper, and the construction condition ensures that every QA average has a positive denominator. 

Q ( 𝑉 ) = {( 𝑞 𝑘 , 𝑦 𝑘 )} 𝐾 𝑘 =1,𝜒 𝑘 ( ˆ𝑉 ) := 𝕀 Answer ( ˆ𝑉, 𝑞 𝑘 ) = 𝑦 𝑘 

 ,

rqa ( ˆ𝑉 ) :=



1 − 𝜒 𝑘 ( ˆ𝑉 )

 𝐾 𝑘 =1 ,

¯𝑟 qa ( ˆ𝑉 ) := 1

𝐾 

> 𝐾

∑︁ 

> 𝑘 =1

(1 − 𝜒 𝑘 ( ˆ𝑉 )) ,𝑅 reward ( ˆ𝑉 ; Q ( 𝑉 )) := 1 − ¯𝑟 qa ( ˆ𝑉 ) = 1

𝐾 

> 𝐾

∑︁ 

> 𝑘 =1

𝜒 𝑘 ( ˆ𝑉 ).

(22) Here 𝑉 is the ground-truth video, ˆ 𝑉 is its reconstruction, 𝐾 is the number of atomic questions, 𝑞 𝑘 is the 𝑘 -th question, and 𝑦 𝑘 is its ground-truth binary answer. 𝜒 𝑘 ( ˆ𝑉 ) equals one when the reconstruction gives that answer. Consequently, rqa is the lower-is-better binary residual vector, ¯ 𝑟 qa is its mean, and 𝑅 reward is the complementary higher-is-better pass rate. Video QA spans the eight reconstruction dimensions and verifies Audio from the generated audio transcript. The focused keyframe bank used by Algorithm 2 covers Character, Scene, and Composition facts observable in a static image. 

C.1. System Prompts for 𝑅 reward 

This subsection documents the frozen prompts used by the QA-based instances of 𝑅 reward to construct questions and verify reconstructed answers. Complete direct English translations of the Chinese prompts used to construct and answer the frozen video and keyframe QA banks are reproduced in Sec. N. 

C.2. 𝑅 reward in Dual-Loop Optimization 

This subsection connects the setting-specific 𝑅 reward in main-paper Sec. 4.3.1 to the diagnostic evidence, textual-gradient variables, and candidate scores used by Algorithms 1 and 2. Evaluation against a frozen QA bank produces two complementary outputs: the scalar fidelity reward in 

> 28 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Eq. 22 and the set of failed atomic facts. The scalar reward supports candidate verification, while the failed facts retain the evidence needed to revise the trainable components of the Agentic Video Encoder policy during Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training. Let Corr (𝜉 ) map one failed QA tuple 𝜉 to the correction record in Eq. 15. The policy-level record collection and its textual gradient are ˆ𝑦 𝑘 := Answer ( ˆ𝑉, 𝑞 𝑘 ),

Fqa ( ˆ𝑉 ; Q ( 𝑉 )) = {( 𝑞 𝑘 , 𝑦 𝑘 , ˆ𝑦 𝑘 ) : ˆ 𝑦 𝑘 ≠ 𝑦 𝑘 },

Tpol ,𝑛 :=

Ø

> 𝑠 ∈ S sel
> 𝑛

{Corr (𝜉 ) : 𝜉 ∈ F qa ( ˆ𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 ; Q𝑛,𝑠 )} ,

gpolicy text = ∇𝑃  

> text

(T pol ,𝑛 ).

(23) 

Fqa contains exactly the questions answered differently from their GT-derived expected answers, and ˆ 𝑦 𝑘 

is the answer obtained from the reconstruction. The symbol 𝜉 denotes one tuple (𝑞 𝑘 , 𝑦 𝑘 , ˆ𝑦 𝑘 ) in this set. The mapping Corr constructs the atomic record a𝑖 = Corr (𝜉 𝑖 ) as follows: the question’s assigned dimension supplies 

𝑑 𝑖 , its expected answer and underlying GT fact supply 𝑢 GT  

> 𝑖

, the reconstruction answer supplies 𝑢 rec  

> 𝑖

, the examined frames or transcript supply 𝑒 𝑖 , and the required factual change supplies ℎ𝑖 . Ssel  

> 𝑛

is the non-empty selected shot set of video 𝑉 𝑛 , while ˆ 𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 and Q𝑛,𝑠 are the reconstruction and frozen QA bank for shot 𝑠 . Consequently, Tpol ,𝑛 

contains policy-level records collected over the current video. For the keyframe setting of main-paper Algorithm 2, the frozen QA bank computes rqa and 𝑅 reward = 1−¯𝑟 qa for fine-grained candidate verification. Its asset textual gradient is instead formed from the current reconstruction’s direct difference set, 

F diff KF (𝐼 base ) := Diff KF (𝐼 GT , 𝐼 base ),

T KF  

> 𝐺

:= {Corr (𝜉 ) : 𝜉 ∈ F diff KF (𝐼 base )} ,

gasset text := ∇𝐺  

> text

(T KF  

> 𝐺

).

(24) Here, 𝐼 base is the current reconstructed keyframe and 𝐼 GT is its GT keyframe. Every 𝜉 ∈ F diff KF (𝐼 base ) contains the dimension, image location, GT observation, and current-reconstruction observation of one grounded difference. Thus, the keyframe modification direction comes from direct image differences, while the QA residual and reward are a separate verification signal derived from the same GT–reconstruction residual. For Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training, Eq. 16 provides the implementation-level update operator. In the shot-prompt branch, the QA residual rqa  

> 𝑛

is converted into correction records Tpol and then into a natural-language update instruction for 𝑃 shot . The keyframe-prompt branch applies the same operator to its image-QA residual and updates 𝑃 kf separately. Applying the same operators defined in Eq. 16 yields the main-paper variables gasset text and gpolicy text .In the keyframe setting of Algorithm 2, F diff KF forms gasset text , while the QA instance 𝑅 KF reward supplies the candidate-verification score. In the video-shot setting, the fixed shot-reward checklist supplies both Fshot and 

𝑅 shot reward . In the outer loop, the shot-prompt branch uses the union of failed video-QA facts over the current video’s shots to form gpolicy text and uses the QA pass rate 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 as its policy reward; the separate keyframe-prompt branch uses the corresponding image-QA evidence and reward. Thus, every branch uses 𝑅 reward for optimization, while 𝑅 eval remains outside both loops and is used only for final reporting. Keyframe diagnosis in the inner loop is the one exception in how the reward evidence is obtained: its modification direction comes from direct image differences, while QA supplies the candidate-verification score. The numerical output of the same QA evaluation supplies the QA residual, loss, and policy reward in Algorithm 1. Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training evaluates selected shots independently and then gives every shot equal weight. Following the main-paper notation, let Ssel  

> 𝑛

be the non-empty selected shot set of video 𝑉 𝑛 . For each 𝑠 ∈ S sel  

> 𝑛

, let 𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 be the source shot, ˆ 𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) its reconstruction under the complete encoding policy 𝑃 , and Q𝑛,𝑠 = {( 𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 , 𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 )} 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠  

> 𝑘 =1

its frozen QA bank. Let 𝐷 denote the number of reported QA dimensions. The bank is partitioned into dimension-specific subsets Q𝑛,𝑠,𝑑 with sizes 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠,𝑑 . The construction retains at least one selected shot, at least one question per selected shot, and at least one question for every reported QA dimension. Therefore |S sel  

> 𝑛

| ≥ 1, 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 ≥ 1, and the dimension weights 𝜔 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

defined below are positive. The 

> 29

AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning 

indicator 𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ) equals one exactly when the reconstruction gives the source-derived answer to question 𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 .The shot reward and its video-level aggregation are ˆ𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) := Dec (𝐸 (𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 ; 𝑃 )) ,

Q𝑛,𝑠 =

> 𝐷

Ú

> 𝑑 =1

Q𝑛,𝑠,𝑑 , 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 := |Q 𝑛,𝑠 |,𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ) := 𝕀 Answer ( ˆ𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ), 𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 ) = 𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 

 ,𝑅 reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) := 1

𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 ∑︁ 

> 𝑘 =1

𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ),𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) := 1

|S sel  

> 𝑛

|∑︁ 𝑠 ∈ S sel 

> 𝑛

𝑅 reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ).

(25) Thus, 𝑅 reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) is the atomic QA pass rate of one shot and 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) is the arithmetic mean of the selected shot rewards. It is not a pooled pass rate over all questions. To connect the atomic residuals in Eq. 22 to Algorithm 1, the dimension weights and fidelities are induced by the same equal-shot aggregation: 

𝜔 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

:= 1

|S sel  

> 𝑛

|∑︁ 𝑠 ∈ S sel 

> 𝑛

𝐾 𝑛,𝑠,𝑑 

𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 

,𝜌 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

(𝑃 ) := 1

|S sel  

> 𝑛

|𝜔 qa 

> 𝑛,𝑑

∑︁ 𝑠 ∈ S sel 

> 𝑛

1

𝐾 𝑛,𝑠 ∑︁ (𝑞 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 ,𝑦 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 ) ∈ Q 𝑛,𝑠,𝑑 

𝜒 𝑛,𝑠,𝑘 (𝑃 ),𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

(𝑃 ) := 1 − 𝜌 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

(𝑃 ),

rqa  

> 𝑛

(𝑃 ) :=



𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛, 1

(𝑃 ), . . . , 𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛,𝐷

(𝑃 )



,

ˆ𝑉 𝑛 (𝑃 ) := {ˆ𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) : 𝑠 ∈ S sel  

> 𝑛

},𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) =

> 𝐷

∑︁ 

> 𝑑 =1

𝜔 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

𝜌 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

(𝑃 )

= 1 −

> 𝐷

∑︁ 

> 𝑑 =1

𝜔 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

(𝑃 )

= 1

|S sel  

> 𝑛

|∑︁ 𝑠 ∈ S sel 

> 𝑛

𝑅 reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ),

¯𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛

(𝑃 ) := 1 − 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ),

Δ𝑅 reward ,𝑛 := 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ′) − 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ).

(26) 

𝑃 ′ is the candidate complete encoding policy and 𝑃 is its current incumbent. Their eligible trainable components are 𝑃 shot and 𝑃 kf , while 𝑃 film is unchanged; within either prompt-rewriting branch, 𝑃 ′ differs from 𝑃 

only in the active component. Q𝑛 := {Q 𝑛,𝑠 : 𝑠 ∈ S sel  

> 𝑛

} is the collection of frozen shot banks for video 𝑛 . The weight 

𝜔 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

is the average, across selected shots, of the within-shot question fraction assigned to dimension 𝑑 ; 𝜌 qa  

> 𝑛,𝑑

uses the same shot normalization. Equations 25–26 therefore instantiate the main-paper symbols 𝑅 reward , rqa  

> 𝑛

, ¯ 𝑟 qa  

> 𝑛

,and Δ𝑅 reward ,𝑛 for the shot-prompt branch while reproducing equal-shot aggregation exactly. The same frozen shot banks supply both the failed-fact textual gradient and the numerical acceptance signal. The corresponding acceptance rules are specified in Sec. D. 

## D. Dual-Loop Acceptance Gates 

This section instantiates the acceptance-gate families for Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement and Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training in main-paper Secs. 4.3.3 and 4.3.2 and Algorithms 2 and 1. 

30 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning 

Subscripts base and cand denote the current baseline and candidate results, respectively; all thresholds below are those used in the reported experiments. 

Γinner =

(

ΓKF inner , keyframe KG representation refinement ,

Γshot inner , video-shot KG representation refinement ,

Γouter = Γcurrent outer ∧ Γreplay outer .

(27) Thus, Γinner covers two operating modes, whereas Γouter combines its current-video and historical-replay checks. The symbol Γ is reserved for acceptance gates and is distinct from the graph latent space G in main-paper Sec. 3.1. 

D.1. Keyframe KG Representation Refinement 

This subsection specifies the QA-reward guard and the auxiliary pairwise-consistency check used by the keyframe-refinement setting of main-paper Algorithm 2. Let 𝐼 GT , 𝐼 base , and 𝐼 cand denote the GT, current baseline, and candidate keyframes, and let QKF (𝐼 GT ) be their frozen QA bank. Define the keyframe instance and its candidate change as 

𝑅 KF reward (𝐼 ) := 𝑅 reward (𝐼 ; QKF (𝐼 GT )) ,

Δ𝑅 KF reward := 𝑅 KF reward (𝐼 cand ) − 𝑅 KF reward (𝐼 base ). (28) The auxiliary pairwise evaluator compares the two reconstructions against 𝐼 GT twice, reversing their presentation order. Let Closer (𝐼 GT ; 𝐼 1, 𝐼 2) return 𝐼 1, 𝐼 2, or a tie. We abbreviate order-consistent agreement by PairCons (𝐼 GT , 𝐼 base , 𝐼 cand ) := 𝕀 

 Closer (𝐼 GT ; 𝐼 base , 𝐼 cand ) = 𝐼 cand 

∧ Closer (𝐼 GT ; 𝐼 cand , 𝐼 base ) = 𝐼 cand 



. (29) PairCons = 1 means that the candidate is selected as closer to GT under both orders; a disagreement or tie returns zero. It is a consistency check rather than the optimization reward. The keyframe gate is therefore written with 𝑅 reward first and pairwise consistency as an additional safeguard: 

ΓKF inner := 𝕀 Δ𝑅 KF reward ≥ − 𝜖 KF 

 ∧ PairCons (𝐼 GT , 𝐼 base , 𝐼 cand ), (30) where 𝜖 KF = 0.05 is the anti-degradation margin used in the reported implementation. Thus, 𝑅 reward supplies the acceptance basis, while the double-order comparison only rejects an unstable or non-improving visual preference. The complete pairwise judgment prompt is reproduced in Sec. N. 

D.2. Video-Shot KG Representation Refinement 

This subsection instantiates the video-shot optimization reward and gate used by Data-Dependent KG Repre-sentation Refinement in main-paper Sec. 4.3.3 and Algorithm 2. This signal is denoted 𝑅 shot reward because it is used to diagnose and accept loop updates; it is distinct from the final-reporting signal 𝑅 eval .For 𝑥 ∈ { base , cand }, let 𝑉 be the GT shot and ˆ 𝑉 𝑥 its current or candidate reconstruction. The fixed shot-reward checklist returns a higher-is-better score 𝜌 shot  

> 𝑥,𝑑

∈ [ 0, 1] for each of the 𝐷 opt = 8 optimization dimensions. Its mismatched or absent items form Fshot (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 𝑥 ) = Fail shot (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 𝑥 ), and its scalar optimization reward is the uniform dimension mean 

𝑅 shot reward (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 𝑥 ) := 1

𝐷 opt 

> 𝐷 opt

∑︁ 

> 𝑑 =1

𝜌 shot  

> 𝑥,𝑑

,𝑅 shot reward ,𝑥 := 𝑅 shot reward (𝑉, ˆ𝑉 𝑥 ), 𝑥 ∈ { base , cand }.

(31) 

> 31 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Here 𝑑 ∈ { 1, . . . , 𝐷 opt } indexes an optimization-reward dimension and 𝑑 ★ is the dimension targeted by the current textual gradient. The candidate passes when 

Γshot inner = 𝕀 𝑅 shot reward ,cand > 𝑅 shot reward ,base + 0.02 

∧ ( 𝜌 shot base ,𝑑 ★ − 𝜌 shot cand ,𝑑 ★ ) ≤ 0.08 

∧∑︁ 

> 𝑑 ≠𝑑 ★

max (0, 𝜌 shot base ,𝑑 − 𝜌 shot cand ,𝑑 ) ≤ 0.15  .

(32) The first condition requires an overall reward gain, the second bounds regression in the targeted reward dimension 𝑑 ★, and the third bounds cumulative drops over all non-target reward dimensions. Any critical-item cap applied by the shot-reward checklist is already reflected in 𝜌 shot  

> 𝑥,𝑑

.

D.3. Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Acceptance Gate 

This subsection instantiates the acceptance gate for Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training in main-paper Sec. 4.3.2 and Algorithm 1, including current-video improvement, visual preservation, and historical replay conditions. For each selected shot, let Qvis  

> 𝑛,𝑠

⊂ Q 𝑛,𝑠 be the frozen non-audio subset. The current-video visual reward follows the same equal-shot aggregation as 𝑅 reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ). Historical replay uses one retained shot from every preceding pseudo-training video. Specifically, ¯ 𝑠 𝑗 denotes the first selected training shot retained after video 𝑉 𝑗 ,

M1: 𝑛 −1 is the resulting replay memory, and fM𝑛 is a uniformly sampled subset containing at most three records. The inherited complete policy 𝑃 (𝑛 ) is frozen when pseudo-training on 𝑉 𝑛 begins, whereas 𝑃 denotes the current incumbent within that video and 𝑃 ′ denotes its candidate update. We define 

𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ) := 𝑅 reward 

ˆ𝑉 𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ); Qvis 

> 𝑛,𝑠



,𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) := 1

|S sel  

> 𝑛

|∑︁ 𝑠 ∈ S sel 

> 𝑛

𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛,𝑠 (𝑃 ),

M1: 𝑛 −1 := {( 𝑉 𝑗, ¯𝑠 𝑗 , Q 𝑗, ¯𝑠 𝑗 )} 𝑛 −1 

> 𝑗 =1

,

| fM𝑛 | := min (3, |M 1: 𝑛 −1 |) ,

¯𝑅 reward ,hist ( 𝑝 ; fM𝑛 ) := 1

| fM𝑛 |∑︁ (𝑉 𝑗, ¯𝑠 𝑗 ,Q 𝑗, ¯𝑠 𝑗 ) ∈ fM𝑛 

𝑅 reward 

ˆ𝑉 𝑗, ¯𝑠 𝑗 ( 𝑝 ); Q 𝑗, ¯𝑠 𝑗 



,

Δ𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 := 𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ′) − 𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ),

Δ ¯𝑅 reward ,hist := ¯𝑅 reward ,hist (𝑃 ′; fM𝑛 ) − ¯𝑅 reward ,hist (𝑃 (𝑛 ) ; fM𝑛 ), 𝑝 ∈ { 𝑃 ′, 𝑃 (𝑛 ) }, | fM𝑛 | ≥ 1.

(33) 

𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 (𝑃 ) is the arithmetic mean of the selected shots’ visual-only optimization rewards. For replay, the candidate and the frozen inherited policy are both reconstructed and evaluated on the same sampled historical shots; Δ ¯𝑅 reward ,hist therefore measures candidate replay performance relative to the policy available before any update on the current video. The replay average is evaluated only when | fM𝑛 | ≥ 1. When the replay memory is empty for the first pseudo-training video, Γreplay outer is set to one without evaluating that average. The candidate is accepted by 

Γcurrent outer = 𝕀 

" Δ𝑅 reward ,𝑛 > 0.02 

∧ Δ𝑅 vis reward ,𝑛 ≥ − 0.03 

#

. (34) 

Γreplay outer = 𝕀 [Δ ¯𝑅 reward ,hist ≥ − 0.05 ], (35) 

Γouter = Γcurrent outer ∧ Γreplay outer . (36) 

> 32 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Together, Eqs. 34–36 accept a candidate policy only when its equal-shot current-video 𝑅 reward improves over the current policy by more than 0 .02, its equal-shot visual reward decreases by no more than 0 .03, and its sampled historical replay reward decreases by no more than 0 .05 relative to the inherited policy frozen at the start of the current video. The three values are absolute reward differences on the [0, 1] scale, corresponding to 2, 3, and 5 percentage points, respectively. 

D.4. Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training Procedure 

This subsection supplements main-paper Sec. 4.3.2 by specifying how Algorithm 1 applies the policy update and acceptance gate sequentially across the pseudo-training videos. Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training applies separate shot- and keyframe-prompt branches to a six-video stream, with each branch processing the videos sequentially and evaluating exactly three candidate prompt updates for each video. A branch (i) inherits and freezes its previously accepted prompt within the complete Agentic Video Encoder policy as the replay baseline, (ii) freezes its source-derived QA bank, and then, in each of the three rounds, (iii) converts failed questions into a textual gradient, (iv) revises only the active 𝑃 shot or 𝑃 kf prompt while keeping 𝑃 film and the other prompt fixed, (v) runs the corresponding frozen encoding–generation–QA pipeline, and (vi) applies Eqs. 34–36. An accepted candidate becomes that branch’s incumbent for the next round on the same video. After all three rounds, the accepted prompt is passed to the next video and the first selected training sample is added to replay memory. The two accepted prompts are then assembled into the complete pseudo-trained policy. This continual prompt/policy pseudo-training updates no foundation-model weights. 

## E. Agentic Video Encoder Implementation Details 

This section supplements main-paper Sec. 4.1 by detailing all three encoder steps represented in Eqs. 4–7: preprocessing, hierarchical agentic understanding through three-level specialized understanding and inter-level context injection, and deterministic KG assembly. The implementation separates shot segmentation and keyframe selection from the policies that produce textual understanding results: neither 𝑃 shot nor 𝑃 kf performs temporal segmentation. 

E.1. Shot Segmentation and Keyframe Selection 

For the macro-level operator Seg, a fixed video-understanding model inspects the complete source video and proposes ordered shot boundaries using three forms of evidence: changes in visual semantics, explicit cinematic-transition cues, and the completion boundaries of spoken utterances. The segmentation prompt targets shots of approximately 10 seconds and normally no more than 15 seconds, but an utterance is kept intact even when doing so requires a longer shot. A deterministic parser converts the returned timestamps into the contiguous frame-index intervals {I 𝑖 }𝑆 𝑖 =1 in Eq. 4, after which FFmpeg performs frame-accurate slicing. Thus, the macro segmentation is semantic and audiovisual; the frame-difference and motion-stability calculations described next belong to keyframe selection within an already segmented shot. The reported implementation uses an adaptive, model-free computer-vision operator for Key. Within each 𝑠 𝑖 ,it computes the mean grayscale difference between every pair of adjacent frames. Its change threshold is adapted to that shot as the larger of a fixed floor of 40 and the median difference plus eight robust standard deviations, where the robust deviation is 1 .4826 times the median absolute deviation. Non-maximum suppression retains only the strongest change within a 0.5-second neighborhood; intervals shorter than 0.8 seconds and neighboring boundaries separated by less than 0.4 seconds are merged. For every remaining interval, the selector discards the outer 15% transition margins, retains the calmest 40% of candidate frames by local motion energy, and chooses the sharpest of those frames by Laplacian variance. If too few candidates remain, it falls back to the interval midpoint. The resulting number 𝐽 𝑖 is content-adaptive and is uniformly downsampled when necessary to enforce 𝐽 max = 12. All steps in Key use only video pixels and deterministic computer-vision tools; they make no model call. 

> 33 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

E.2. Three-Level Specialized Understanding and Inter-Level Context Injection 

The film-level operation 𝐸 film performs full-video understanding under 𝑃 film . It returns the film-level textual result Cfilm and the shared registry Breg = Bchar ∪ B scene ∪ B obj . The former records global narrative, style, ordered-shot relations, and other whole-film evidence. The latter assigns stable names, IDs, appearance descriptions, and variants to recurring characters, scenes, and objects. These IDs form the common anchors used by all later textual records and by graph-addressable asset indices. For shot 𝑠 𝑖 , 𝐸 shot receives the complete shot together with Cfilm and Breg . Under 𝑃 shot , it specializes in shot understanding and writes Cshot ,𝑖 as an information-description textual representation of the shot’s subjects and entity states, spatial and temporal dynamics, camera behavior, style, dialogue, music, and sound. Injecting 

Cfilm supplies global narrative and ordered cross-shot evidence that is not recoverable from 𝑠 𝑖 alone, while the registry forces recurring entities to reuse canonical names and IDs. For the keyframes K𝑖 selected from the same shot, 𝐸 kf receives the keyframe images, the shot-level result 

Cshot ,𝑖 , and the complete registry Breg . Under 𝑃 kf , it specializes in keyframe understanding and writes a separate 

Ckf ,𝑖, 𝑗 for every 𝑓 kf  

> 𝑖, 𝑗

∈ K 𝑖 , covering subjects, static action state, appearance, spatial layout, scene, composition, lighting, color, and style. The complete registry supplies the same canonical entity names and IDs available at the shot stage. The implementation injects only Cshot ,𝑖 into keyframes belonging to 𝑠 𝑖 ; it never injects another shot’s local result. Selected temporal fields from Cshot ,𝑖 locate a static pose within the full action process and disambiguate evidence that a single frame cannot resolve. In outer-loop Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training, the composite policy 𝑃 is the optimized encoding object. Component-wise, 𝑃 film remains fixed, while the shot- and keyframe-understanding policies  

> 𝑃 shot

and 𝑃 kf are eligible for textual updates. The foundation-model weights and the preprocessing operators Seg and Key remain fixed. After the three understanding stages, BuildGraph parses their structured textual fields and registry IDs, instantiates the fixed Film KG node schema, and adds hierarchy, temporal-order, state-binding, semantic, and asset-reference edges according to fixed rules. This assembly is deterministic and invokes no additional foundation model. Section K gives the full stored schema and propagation rules. 

## F. Agentic Video Encoder System Prompts 

This section supplements the Agentic Video Encoder in main-paper Sec. 4.1 and the policy conditions compared in RQ2 (Sec. 5.3) by documenting the complete Agentic Video Encoder policy conditions used in the comparison. Section N provides complete direct English translations of the Chinese Agentic Video Encoder prompts. They include the fixed film-level prompt, the initial and pseudo-trained shot- and keyframe-level prompts, and the independently human-tuned shot-level prompt. The pseudo-trained prompts are the policies obtained after the sixth pseudo-training video. 

## G. Baseline Adaptation and Fairness 

This section supplements the baseline comparison in main-paper Secs. 5.1–5.2 by specifying how VideoAnalyzer, Storyboard Studio, and soap2soap are connected to the shared reconstruction pipeline and evaluated under common generators. The external comparison contains only VideoAnalyzer (Docusphere, 2026), Storyboard Studio (BroderQi, 2026), and soap2soap (Song et al., 2026). These systems do not all include an end-to-end film-reconstruction decoder. We therefore map each method’s own representation to the same fixed image and video generators. This conversion preserves each method’s segmentation, analysis, and representation. 

VideoAnalyzer. We retain its temporal scene analysis, aligned transcript, extracted frames, and video rep-resentation. Its own segments and descriptions are converted into reconstruction prompts for the shared generators. 

Storyboard Studio. We retain its original shot analysis, contact sheets, and storyboard structure. When its output does not provide explicit shot boundaries, the source-frame timestamp and generated-clip duration 

> 34 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

define the corresponding GT interval. 

soap2soap. We retain its video analysis, character representation, prompt construction, and keyframe stages. These outputs are passed to the shared generators, and its reconstruction uses only assets produced by soap2soap. 

Source-pixel exclusion. All four systems obey the same strict boundary between representation construction and reconstruction generation. A system may inspect the source video when constructing its representation, and source frames may be used as GT only during evaluation; however, no source-video frame, crop, screenshot, or other source-pixel image is passed to either generation model or used as a visual reference for reconstruction. Every reconstructed keyframe is newly generated by the shared image generator from the text-centered structured description produced by the corresponding representation system. Any such keyframe subsequently used by the video generator remains a generated reconstruction asset rather than copied source content. Accordingly, the extracted frames retained by VideoAnalyzer and the contact sheets retained by Storyboard Studio are analysis inputs only and never generation inputs. This rule ensures that reconstruction quality measures the information carried by the text representation. Text is an important modality in an agent workspace because agents can directly reason over, learn from, and edit it; its ordered intermediate descriptions also form an important part of an agentic video creation trajectory. This setup applies identically to AVA-Encoder, VideoAnalyzer, Storyboard Studio, and soap2soap. 

Representation budget. The shared information constraint introduced in main-paper Sec. 5.1 is instantiated as 𝑁 ref = 5 generated reference keyframes and 𝑀 = 1200 prompt tokens per shot. Thus, each representation-to-decoder interface supplies at most five newly synthesized reference images and a shot-level textual prompt of at most 1200 tokens. These limits apply to all four systems and are separate from the source material available only during representation construction and evaluation. 

Shared generators and alignment. As specified in main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1), all four systems receive the same source videos and use the same fixed Nano Banana Pro image generator (Google AI, 2026b), HappyHorse 1.0 reference-to-video generator (Alibaba Cloud, 2026a), and evaluator. Each system is evaluated against GT induced by its own segmentation and keyframe selection, as specified in Sec. B. This setup isolates the quality of the produced agentic representation while avoiding a comparison of different generation backbones. In a separate decoder-robustness pilot, 20 shots per representation system were regenerated with Happy-Horse and Seedance 2.0 (ByteDance Seed Team, 2026) while holding the representation assets, prompts, and evaluator fixed. The change in the Overall reconstruction score remained within 1.5 percentage points , which we treat as the observed decoder-induced variation for this pilot. 

## H. Dataset and Reproducibility Details 

This section supplements main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) and the dataset contribution by describing the released Film KG dataset, the source and size of the 18-video evaluation collection, the six-video pseudo-training stream, and the held-out evaluation split. 

H.1. Released Film KG Dataset 

This subsection expands the Film KG dataset contribution stated in the main paper. We construct and release a dataset at the scale of tens of thousands of shots. It contains the text portion of Film KG representations derived from high-quality, human-made film content, including fine-grained structured descriptions of scripts, characters, scenes, objects, shots, and keyframes. These representations retain enough information to support reconstruction of the source film content through a fixed generation pipeline. The input videos are collected from publicly available open-source online data and include high-quality film content, award-winning short films, and popular human-produced AI videos. The released dataset contains only the structured-text hierarchy, states, and relations; it does not include the image, audio, or video assets in A𝐺 . Users can connect their own image-, audio-, and video-generation APIs, or feed the representations directly into AVA-Encoder, to render the corresponding assets. The graph structure also supports linked editing in which a node update changes its dependent video content. Without rendering 

> 35 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

any video, users can further use the structured text nodes and their dependencies as records of high-quality agentic video creation processes. 

H.2. Pseudo-Training and Evaluation Video Collections 

This subsection supplements the data description in main-paper Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) by identifying the clips used for pseudo-training and evaluation. Both collections were assembled from publicly available open-source data. 

Pseudo-training videos. The six-video pseudo-training stream contains the following clips: 1. The Big Bang Theory : Sheldon learns Chinese. 2. The Truman Show : ending sequence. 3. Friends : Rachel’s runaway-wedding sequence. 4. Zootopia : Flash’s document-stamping sequence. 5. Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone : Platform Nine and Three-Quarters sequence. 6. The Pursuit of Happyness : interview sequence. 

Evaluation videos. The 18-video evaluation collection contains the following clips: 1. Spirited Away : Chihiro’s parents turn into pigs. 2. Zombie Cleaner , an AI-generated short film. 3. Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone : Diagon Alley sequence. 4. Joker : subway sequence. 5. Kung Fu Panda : Master Oogway’s classic speech. 6. Genshin Impact : Natlan “Little Friend” sequence. 7. Dream of the Red Chamber : Baoyu and Daiyu’s first meeting. 8. Rather Than Suspicion .9. Shameless : selected sequence. 10. Titanic : deck-embrace sequence. 11. Zootopia 2 : selected sequence. 12. Zootopia : paw-shaped popsicle sequence. 13. The Secret Life of Walter Mitty : mountain sequence. 14. The Million Pound Note : selected sequence. 15. 3 Idiots : classroom sequence. 16. Green Book : car sequence. 17. Forrest Gump : chase sequence. 18. Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone : flying-lesson sequence in which Malfoy causes trouble. The evaluation collection spans varied content and forms, with 129 annotated shots and 246 selected keyframes. Shot and keyframe counts can differ across the four representation systems because each system retains its own segmentation and keyframe-selection policy. The source clips come from publicly available open-source data and are used to construct and evaluate the derived Film KG representations. The six pseudo-training videos and the 18 held-out evaluation videos do not overlap at the clip level. In each of the separate shot- and keyframe-prompt branches, a pseudo-training video begins with the corresponding prompt accepted after the preceding videos and evaluates three candidate updates to that prompt. Historical samples are evaluated with the gate thresholds stated in Sec. D. All foundation-model weights used for understanding, policy revision, QA, image generation, and video generation remain fixed. 

## I. Fine-Grained Reconstruction Results 

This section supplements main-paper RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) and Table 1. Tables 7 and 8 report the per-dimension breakdown for the direct V and KF benchmark directions. These values are produced by 𝑅 eval , not 𝑅 reward : V and KF use Eq. 19, whereas the V-BC and KF-BC values in main-paper Table 1 use Eq. 20. The row means below equal the V and KF entries in that table.                                              

> 36 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning
> Method Char. Scene Pos. Motion Audio Style Camera Narr. V mean VideoAnalyzer 32.9 33.5 23.4 19.8 16.9 17.4 42.7 22.4 26.1 Storyboard Studio 15.8 25.1 14.0 9.6 13.4 12.3 30.5 10.1 16.4 soap2soap 40.9 45.1 34.5 30.2 31.6 28.2 47.7 35.5 36.7
> AVA-Encoder 56.2 80.9 63.4 43.7 52.5 39.5 71.6 54.9 57.8

Table 7 | V direction by dimension (%). Higher is better.                                         

> Method Char. Scene Pos. Motion Style Camera Narr. KF mean VideoAnalyzer 30.0 24.1 24.2 25.9 15.3 60.0 19.9 28.5 Storyboard Studio 27.1 22.5 21.4 30.4 10.1 66.0 22.4 28.6 soap2soap 38.4 38.8 31.6 35.6 27.2 66.2 38.7 39.5
> AVA-Encoder 63.3 80.3 84.5 68.1 45.2 91.7 83.0 73.7

Table 8 | KF direction by its seven applicable dimensions (%). Audio is N/A; higher is better. 

## J. Ablation Definitions and Effect Sizes 

This section supplements main-paper RQ2 (Sec. 5.3) and Table 2 by defining every configuration and reporting absolute and relative differences from the complete AVA-Encoder. 

Naive Agentic Video Encoder. This variant uses single-level understanding, with neither the hierarchical film–shot–keyframe Agentic Video Encoder nor either optimization loop. 

Without Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training. The initial complete Agentic Video Encoder policy  

> 𝑃 0

is fixed; Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement and its gate remain active. 

Without Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement. This variant uses the pseudo-trained complete policy 𝑃 ∗ but disables input-specific keyframe and shot refinement. 

Without both loops. This variant uses 𝑃 0 with neither Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training nor Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement. 

Human-tuned Agentic Video Encoder. This is an independently and manually engineered complete Agentic Video Encoder policy, not 𝑃 0 of the policy pseudo-training trajectory; it uses neither Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training nor Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement. 

Without gates. This variant retains 𝑃 ∗ and both optimization loops but removes the anti-degradation and anti-forgetting acceptance constraints; it does not remove either loop. 

AVA-Encoder. The complete configuration uses hierarchical understanding, Data-Dependent KG Representa-tion Refinement, Data-Agnostic Encoding Policy Pseudo-Training, and both gate families. With Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement disabled in both conditions, the pseudo-trained Agentic Video Encoder policy improves over its independently human-tuned counterpart from 44.4 to 45.8: an 

absolute gain of 1.4 percentage points and a 1 .4/44 .4 = 3.2% relative improvement. Pseudo-training also reduces the shot-level system prompt from 31,336 to 8,052 tokens (74.3%) and the keyframe-level system prompt from 13,574 to 4,062 tokens (70.1%). Enabling optional test-time Data-Dependent KG Representation Refinement yields the complete AVA-Encoder score of 49.0. The complete configuration improves over the no-loop configuration from 42.4 to 49.0: an absolute gain of 6.6 percentage points and a 6 .6/42 .4 = 15 .6%relative improvement. Against the strongest external baseline, soap2soap at 28.3, the 49.0 score is an absolute gain of 20.7 percentage points and a relative improvement of 20 .7/28 .3 = 73 .1%. 

## K. Film KG Representation and Editing 

This section supplements the main-paper Film KG Representation (Sec. 4.2) and RQ3, Film KG Operability 

(Sec. 5.4). 

> 37 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

K.1. Stored Schema 

This subsection supplements the Film KG representation 𝐺 in main-paper Sec. 4.2 by defining the node types, edge types, and persistent states stored in the graph. Consistent with main-paper Sec. 4.2, the representation separates text nodes from multimodal assets. The nine text node categories are story , event , shot , char_state , scene_state , object_state ,

style_state , camera_state , and audio_state . Every one of these nodes stores a structured text de-scription. A story node describes the global narrative, an event node describes a local narrative unit, and a 

shot node describes one film shot. The six state types describe their shot-specific character, scene, object, style, camera, and audio information. In particular, audio_state describes spoken content and speaker identity, voice properties, background music, sound effects, and audiovisual synchronization in text rather than storing audio data. Let Ntext denote the nine text node categories above and let Nkeyframe denote the graph-addressable 

keyframe nodes. Then N𝐺 = Ntext ∪ N keyframe , consistent with the graph notation in main-paper Sec. 4.2. Each keyframe node stores a structured text description and image-generation payload. The linked asset layer A𝐺 

stores or references generated character, scene, and object images; generated keyframe images; audio or voice assets; and rendered shot videos. An asset-reference link connects each keyframe node to its generated image in A𝐺 , allowing binds and references edges to locate and update that asset. Other asset paths are attached to the relevant text or keyframe nodes. Thus, the schema has nine text node types plus one graph-addressable keyframe node type, while generated images remain in the separate asset layer. The source-pixel exclusion defined in Sec. G makes the graph an explicit text bottleneck: AVA-Encoder cannot obtain reconstruction fidelity by copying pixels from the source video, but must express reconstruction-critical information through structured text nodes and their relations. Assets in A𝐺 are generated from those descriptions rather than copied from the source video. The resulting text-centered graph can therefore be directly understood and learned from by downstream agents, queried by entity, event, shot, or asset, edited at a selected node, and reused to generate new multimodal assets. The graph uses 11 explicit relation types. The lowercase code identifiers in this subsection are the serialized forms of the capitalized conceptual relation names introduced in main-paper Sec. 4.2; for example, Contains ,

SpokenBy , and References are stored as contains , spoken_by , and references . contains represents the story–event–shot hierarchy; binds links a shot to the states and keyframes used by that shot; and transition 

links successive states of the same entity. sequence records the temporal order of shots or events, while jump 

links non-adjacent reappearances of the same character, scene, or object. spoken_by links spoken content in an audio state to a character; rel records character relationships; similar marks visually confusable characters, scenes, or objects; and features links a scene to its recurring characters or objects. narrative 

records causal, setup, and callback relations between shots, and references records which character, scene, or object registry assets were used to produce a keyframe. Consistency among states within the same shot is checked during editing rather than stored as another edge. 

K.2. Construction and Propagation 

This subsection supplements graph construction in main-paper Sec. 4.2 and the graph-based editing operation in RQ3 (Sec. 5.4) by specifying how hierarchical understanding records become graph elements and how edits propagate through them. Film-level understanding produces three explicit registry banks: a character registry Bchar , a scene registry 

Bscene , and an object registry Bobj . We denote their union by 

Breg := Bchar ∪ B scene ∪ B obj . (37) The character registry stores textual descriptions of stable identities and appearance variants, the scene registry stores textual descriptions of recurring environments and their spatial and visual properties, and the object registry stores textual descriptions of recurring props and their observable states. Any generated reference images associated with these entries remain in A𝐺 . Consistent with Eq. 6 and Appendix Sec. E.2, the complete registry Breg is injected into both shot- and keyframe-level understanding; the shot-specific textual result Cshot ,𝑖 

is additionally injected into every keyframe 𝑓 kf  

> 𝑖, 𝑗

belonging to shot 𝑠 𝑖 . The shared registry binds observations at 

> 38 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Figure 6 | Qualitative reconstruction comparison on Zombie Cleaner . Rows show GT, AVA-Encoder, soap2soap, VideoAnalyzer, Storyboard Studio, and the Naive Agentic Video Encoder. both stages to stable character, scene, and object identities across cuts, while Cshot ,𝑖 carries the shot’s dynamic states into each keyframe-level textual result Ckf ,𝑖, 𝑗 and its generation prompt. Each object-registry entry is instantiated as an object_state in every shot where that object appears. A binds edge attaches the state to its shot, transition links consecutive states of the same object, and references records its use in generated keyframes. Film-level understanding, the three registry banks, shot-level understanding, and all keyframe-level understanding results are then combined into structured records. The nodes and relations above are constructed deterministically from those records; graph construction requires no additional model call. An identity edit is propagated to all states of the same entity and to every keyframe that uses that entity. A style edit is propagated to the shots and keyframes that share the edited style. Content and parameter edits regenerate only the affected prompts and assets. The event and story nodes are updated when their contained shots change, while unrelated subgraphs remain unchanged. The affected-subgraph rule and its qualitative editing examples are presented in Sec. L.2 after the recon-struction comparisons. 

## L. Additional Qualitative Results 

This section supplements main-paper RQ1 (Sec. 5.2) and RQ3 (Sec. 5.4) with qualitative reconstruction comparisons and graph-conditioned edit examples. 

L.1. Reconstruction Comparisons 

This subsection supplements the reconstruction results in main-paper RQ1 (Sec. 5.2). Figures 6–11 compare film reconstruction across six source videos. In each comparison, rows show GT, AVA-Encoder, soap2soap, VideoAnalyzer, Storyboard Studio, and the Naive Agentic Video Encoder under the shared generation setting. 

> 39 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Figure 7 | Qualitative reconstruction comparison on Kung Fu Panda , using the same row order as in Fig. 6. 

Figure 8 | Qualitative reconstruction comparison on Shameless , using the same row order as in Fig. 6. 

Figure 9 | Qualitative reconstruction comparison on Titanic , using the same row order as in Fig. 6. 

> 40 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Figure 10 | Qualitative reconstruction comparison on the popsicle sequence from Zootopia , using the same row order as in Fig. 6. 

Figure 11 | Qualitative reconstruction comparison on the Malfoy broom sequence from Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone , using the same row order as in Fig. 6. 

> 41 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Figure 12 | Film KG visualization. The story–event–shot hierarchy appears above the shot-bound state and keyframe nodes. Typed edges expose temporal, semantic, and asset-reference dependencies that are not represented by a flat shot list. This example displays only the node and edge types instantiated in the selected clip; the formal schema in Sec. K additionally supports object states and the complete 11-relation taxonomy. 

Figure 13 | Graph-editing interface before node selection. The complete film graph is organized by hierarchy and semantic layer, allowing an editor to locate a story unit, shot state, or rendered keyframe without flattening its dependencies. 

L.2 Graph-Topology Editing 

This subsection supplements the downstream editing experiment in main-paper RQ3 (Sec. 5.4). Topology editing identifies the smallest dependency subgraph that must change after a local edit. We use the graph notation from the main paper, 𝐺 = (N 𝐺 , E𝐺 , A𝐺 ), and let Zedit ⊆ N 𝐺 denote the directly edited text or keyframe records. Edges from these records identify any multimodal data in A𝐺 that must be updated. An edit is first assigned one of four facets: identity replacement, content rewrite, visual-treatment change, or parameter adjustment. The selected facet determines which typed edges may carry the edit and in which direction. Figure 12 visualizes the stored graph described in Sec. K. Figures 13 and 14 show how the same graph is inspected during editing. The overview retains the complete film hierarchy and all typed layers; selecting one asset isolates the dependency paths that determine which linked states and rendered outputs may require an update. 

> 42 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Figure 14 | Graph-editing interface after selecting a keyframe node. The interface highlights the selected node’s incoming and outgoing dependency paths and displays its stored asset information, making the affected subgraph used by the propagation rule explicit. Figures 4 and 5 in main-paper RQ3 (Sec. 5.4) show the two principal edit cases. The rules below formalize how their linked states and rendered assets are updated while unrelated graph content is preserved. Table 9 summarizes the propagation rule and resulting update for each edit facet.        

> Edit facet Propagation and resulting update Identity Follow entity-state transitions and asset references; refresh linked identities, keyframes, and shots. Content Follow the edited shot’s bindings; recompile its prompts, rerender its assets, and check one-step semantic dependents. Visual treatment Follow style-state transitions and asset references; apply the treatment consis-tently to linked keyframes and shots. Parameter Follow the edited state and its shot binding; update only the selected camera, lighting, scene, or object attributes. Table 9 |Facet-specific propagation used for graph-topology editing.

The affected subgraph is determined in three stages. 

Material closure. The first stage collects assets that must be regenerated together. State transitions connect occurrences of the same entity, reference edges connect character, scene, or style states to their keyframes, and shot–keyframe bindings connect a changed shot to its rendered assets. These dependencies are followed repeatedly until no additional material node is reached. 

Semantic consistency check. The second stage adds one-hop contextual dependencies that may require a local revision after the material update, including within-shot character–scene compatibility, audio ownership, camera framing, temporal order, and narrative relations. Restricting this stage to one hop prevents a local edit from propagating through an unrelated narrative chain. 

Hierarchical update. The third stage adds the event and story nodes that contain an affected shot, so their summaries can be revised without changing unaffected branches of the graph hierarchy. The following relation expresses the three stages in a single affected-subgraph definition. Let 𝜁 denote the selected edit facet: identity, content, style, or parameter. Let Emat  

> 𝜁

and Esem  

> 𝜁

be the directed material and semantic edge sets allowed for that facet, respectively. We denote the resulting affected-node set by N aff  

> 𝜁

(Z edit ).Starting with Cl (0) 

> 𝜁

(Z edit ) = Zedit , material propagation is 

> 43 AVA-Encoder: Towards Agent-Native Video Representation Learning

Dep 𝜈 𝜁 (𝑍 ) = {𝑣 | ∃ 𝑢 ∈ 𝑍, (𝑢, 𝑣 ) ∈ E 𝜈 𝜁 },

Cl (ℓ+1) 

> 𝜁

(Z edit ) = Cl (ℓ) 

> 𝜁

(Z edit ) ∪ Dep mat  

> 𝜁

(Cl (ℓ) 

> 𝜁

(Z edit )) ,

Cl 𝜁 (Z edit ) =

Ø

> ℓ≥0

Cl (ℓ) 

> 𝜁

(Z edit ),

Sem 𝜁 (𝑍 ) = Dep sem  

> 𝜁

(𝑍 ),

Naff  

> 𝜁

(Z edit ) = 𝑈  Cl 𝜁 (Z edit ) ∪ Sem 𝜁 (Cl 𝜁 (Z edit ))  .

(38) Here, 𝜈 ∈ { mat , sem } selects an edge class, Dep 𝜈 𝜁 (𝑍 ) returns the one-step dependents of node set 𝑍 , and ℓ is the propagation depth. Cl 𝜁 (Z edit ) is the repeated material closure, Sem 𝜁 (𝑍 ) adds one-step semantic dependents, and 𝑈 (𝑍 ) adds at most the two containing hierarchy levels from a shot to its event and story. Thus, N aff  

> 𝜁

(Z edit ) is the complete set of nodes affected by the edit. Repeated visits are suppressed, so the traversal costs 𝑂 (|N 𝐺 |+ |E 𝐺 |) 

time and 𝑂 (|N 𝐺 |) memory. Each affected node receives an update action and the dependency path that caused it to be selected. If several paths reach the same node, their reasons are combined and the action that performs the more complete update is retained. Identity references are refreshed first, followed by prompt recompilation, text-state revision, keyframe rendering, and video rendering. The original graph is retained, and edits are represented as an overlay so that unrelated nodes and the source representation remain unchanged. 

Propagation by edit type. For identity replacement, Zedit contains the selected character state or its shared identity entry. The material closure follows state transitions in both temporal directions to reach the character’s other occurrences, then follows asset references to the corresponding keyframes and shot bindings to the shots that must be rerendered. The one-step semantic check examines camera framing and audio ownership because a changed body shape or speaker identity can require a local adjustment, but it does not recursively rewrite unrelated audio or camera tracks. The upward operator 𝑈 records which enclosing event and story summaries require revision. For a content rewrite, propagation starts from the selected shot and its bound prompt, keyframe, and video assets. Temporal-order and narrative relations are checked for one step so that adjacent context can be revised when necessary, without carrying the edit through the full sequence. A visual-treatment edit instead follows the occurrence track of the same style state and its asset references, producing a consistent treatment across linked shots. A parameter edit, such as a camera, lighting, scene, or object adjustment, remains attached to the edited state and its bound assets. The rule therefore provides cross-shot consistency for identity and visual-treatment edits while retaining local control for content and parameter changes. 

## M. Downstream Story-Video Evaluation Detail 

This section supplements the downstream generation experiment in main-paper RQ4 (Sec. 5.5) by defining the reference-free story-video rubric, grade-to-score conversion, and the “Asset refs.” comparison condition. The downstream evaluation is performed by Gemini-3.1-Pro-Preview and is reference-free: it evaluates the quality of the generated story video rather than similarity to a source film. The five dimensions are Character (appearance, personality, and arc), Plot (structure, causality, tension/pacing, and payoff), Camera (composition, movement, editing, and narrative service), Style (consistency, color/tone, fidelity, and art design), and Audiovisual Quality (completeness, synchronization, music, and mixing). Each sub-dimension receives a grade from A to D, mapped to 4–1; a dimension is the mean of its sub-dimensions and Overall is the unweighted mean of the five dimensions. In the “Asset refs.” condition, the complete AVA-Encoder representation is supplied once as text before generation, with only a basic one-sentence request that the framework refer to this representation for the current case. This single, system-independent injection is the only change from the corresponding no-reference condition; the evaluation rubric remains fixed. 

> 44

Complete Reconstruction-Evaluation System Prompts 

The system prompts used during the reported experiments were written in Chinese; direct English translations are pro-vided here for presentation. All compared methods use the same frozen prompts. 

Direct Reconstruction Evaluation 

Character 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos: [Video 1 = reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: character. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or inspect Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: inspect only Video 1] Decompose every main character in the GT into a list of atomic checkpoints. Follow these rules: - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a visual fact that you can point to directly at aspecific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is visible and the remainder is not actually visible because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding aprop"). When an action process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. - Each checkpoint must contain only one directly visible and verifiable fact. Do not combine facts with "and"; convert statements of degree into binary propositions. - Priority (all P0 items are mandatory) for every main character: * Core identity: gender and age group (crit=true) * Appearance: at least 1 item (crit=true; face shape, facial features, skin tone, or a salient facial mark, such as "round face, thick eyebrows, and a full beard" or "oval face and straight bangs") * Body proportions: at least 1 item (height, build, body shape, or proportions, such as "tall and slim with long legs" or "short, broad, and sturdy") * Expression and emotion: at least 1 item (crit=true; be specific: smiling, crying, surprised, calm, shy, etc.) * Gaze direction: at least 1 item (where the character looks, whom the character meets eyes with, or whether the head is lowered or raised) * Pose and action: at least 1 item (describe the pose and action, with its concrete form in parentheses, such as "half-kneeling in salute (both knees on the ground and upper body leaning forward)" or "sitting upright (hands folded on the lap)") * Main clothing form and dominant color: 1-2 items (crit=true; ask only about the principal form and color) * Main hairstyle or headwear feature: at most 1 item - Details such as accessories and patterns must constitute no more than 20% of all items. With multiple characters, identify the character in every item (for example, "the boy in red"). - Scale the total number of items with the number of characters: 8-11 for one character and 14-18 for two characters. [Step 2: compare each item with Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" / "partial" / "mismatch" / "absent" (the element is missing or not visible in Video 2) - evidence: one sentence describing the specific observation in Video 2 (for example, "In Video 2, the woman looks straight ahead with a neutral expression"). Do not use empty statements such as "consistent/inconsistent with GT." Verify every item independently; do not mark everything as a match because the overall result appears similar. Real reconstructions usually contain some mismatches, which must be reported faithfully. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score from the verdicts; you are responsible only for facts and evidence. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"character", "checks":[{"sub":"identity|appearance|build|demeanor|gaze| posture|costume|hair","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true|false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"specific observation in Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of the characters in GT","desc_gen":"two-sentence summary of the characters in Video 2"} 

Scene 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos: [Video 1 = reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: scene. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or inspect Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: inspect only Video 1] Decompose the GT scene into alist of atomic checkpoints. Follow these rules: - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a visual fact that you can point to directly at a specific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is visible and the remainder is not actually visible because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding a prop"). When an action process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. - Priority (all P0 items are mandatory): * Overall scene appearance: 1-2 items (crit=true; describe the overall appearance as environment type + dominant color tone + stylistic texture, such as "traditional Chinese hall, warm yellow-brown wood palette, and classical carved-beam style" or "modern apartment living room, cool white light, and minimalist style") * Salient furnishings: 1 item for each of the 2-4 most salient elements (furniture, props, or architectural elements that occupy a large area or are in focus) * Spatial layout: at least 1 item (depth or structural relation, such as "a blurred deep hall extends in the background") * Shot layers: 1 item when applicable (distribution across foreground, midground, and background, such as "wooden railing in the foreground, characters in the midground, and a blurred hall in the background") - Details such as wall patterns and small objects must constitute no more than 20% of all items. Each checkpoint contains one fact; convert statements of degree into binary propositions. Use 5-9 items in total. [Step 2: compare each item with Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" / "partial" / "mismatch" / "absent" - evidence: one sentence describing the specific observation in Video 2; do not use empty statements. Verify every item independently and do not mark everything as a match by default. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"scene", "checks":[{"sub":"scene_look|furnishing|layout|shot_ layers","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true| false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"specific observation in Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of the GT scene","desc_ gen":"two-sentence summary of the scene in Video 2"} 

Position 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos: [Video 1 = reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: positional relations. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or inspect Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: inspect only Video 1] Decompose the positional facts in the GT into a list of atomic checkpoints. Follow these N. Complete System Prompts 

This section supplements the Agentic Video Encoder (Sec. 4.1), 𝑅 reward and 𝑅 eval (Sec. 4.3.1), and Experiment Setup (Sec. 5.1) with complete direct English translations of the Chinese prompts used for reconstruction evaluation, QA-reward construction and answering, keyframe comparison, and encoding. The encoder prompts cover the fixed film-level component; the initial, pseudo-trained, and independently human-tuned shot-level components; and the initial and pseudo-trained keyframe-level components. The experiments use the original Chinese prompts, while these translations document the corresponding experimental specification. rules: - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a visual fact that you can point to directly at a specific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is visible and the remainder is not actually visible because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding aprop"). When an action process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. - Priority (all P0 items are mandatory): * For every pair of main characters: at least 1 relative-position item (crit=true; who is left/right or front/back, and whether they face each other or face away) * Absolute position of every main character: 1 item each (image region and occupied area, such as "the woman is slightly right of center and occupies about half the image height") * Occlusion and depth layering: 1 item when applicable * Position change: at least 1 item when relative movement occurs within the shot ("the boy moves from screen right toward the center"; this temporal fact must be checked over the complete shot) - For a single-character shot, list only the absolute position and relation to salient objects. Each checkpoint contains one fact. Use 3-8 items in total. - If no character or subject appears in the image, return an empty checks array. [Step 2: compare each item with Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" / "partial" / "mismatch" / "absent" - evidence: one sentence describing the specific observation in Video 2. Check the entire Video 2 for a position-change item. Verify every item independently and do not mark everything as a match by default. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"position", "checks":[{"sub":"rel_pos|abs_pos|depth|pos_ change","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true| false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"specific observation in Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of GT positional relations","desc_gen":"two-sentence summary of positional relations in Video 2"} 

Motion 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos: [Video 1 = reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: motion. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or inspect Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: inspect only Video 1] Decompose the dynamic facts in the GT into a list of atomic checkpoints. Follow these rules: - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a visual fact that you can point to directly at a specific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is visible and the remainder is not actually visible because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding aprop"). When an action process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. - Each checkpoint contains only one verifiable dynamic fact. Convert degrees such as speed into binary propositions (for example, "the action is slow and composed rather than hurried"). - [Mandatory character distinction] In a multi-character shot, every action, direction, speed, or interaction checkpoint must identify which character moves (for example, "the boy in red raises his right arm," not "someone raises an arm"). Do not mix actions of two characters into one checkpoint. - Priority (all P0 items are mandatory), listed separately for every moving main character: * Action process: at least 2 items (at least 1 with crit=true), including the start, end, and process of the character’s action (for example, "the boy in red rises from a half-kneeling salute to stand upright") and whether it is completed within the shot. This is the most important checkpoint; do not record only a frozen single-frame pose. * Motion direction: at least 1 item (the screen direction of movement or change in facing direction) * Speed and rhythm: 1 binary item * Interaction process: mandatory when present (crit=true; specify direction and agent/patient: who acts on whom and toward whom, such as "the boy hands the teacup to the elderly woman (boy -> elderly woman)," "the woman turns to look at the newcomer (woman -> newcomer)," or "A pushes B (A -> B)," rather than merely "the two interact") - For a character who remains essentially motionless, list one item stating that the character maintains the specific static pose. - Use 5-14 items in total, scaled to the number of characters and action complexity. [Step 2: compare each item with Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" / "partial" / "mismatch" / "absent" (the action does not occur or is not visible in Video 2) - evidence: one sentence describing the specific observation in Video 2 (for example, "In Video 2, the boy remains standing throughout and never rises"). Do not use empty statements. Check the entire Video 2 for an action-process item. Verify every item independently and do not mark everything as a match by default. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"motion", "checks":[{"sub":"action_process|move_dir|speed|interaction| static","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true| false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"specific observation in Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of GT motion","desc_ gen":"two-sentence summary of motion in Video 2"} 

Audio 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos with audio tracks: [Video 1 =reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: audio. Listen carefully to both videos. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or listen to Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: listen only to Video 1] Decompose the GT audio track into a list of atomic checkpoints. Follow these rules: - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a fact that you can point to directly at a specific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after hearing or seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is available and the remainder is not actually observable because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding a prop"). When a process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. - Priority (all P0 items are mandatory): * Every intelligible dialogue line - [speaker identity]: 1 item each (crit=true; specify which character or speaker says the line and summarize its content, such as "the boy in red says, ’Greetings, Grandmother’"; if the speaker cannot be identified, write "off-screen/unidentified [type of voice]") * Every dialogue line - [voice quality]: 1 item each (crit=true; the speaker’s vocal characteristics, including perceived gender, age, and quality, such as "an elderly, hoarse male voice" or "a clear young female voice"; verify whether the line in Video 2 is spoken with a matching voice, and mark a changed voice as mismatch) * Off-screen speech/narration: 1 item each when present (crit=true; likewise identify the off-screen speaker and voice quality) * Detailed sound effects: list every identifiable GT sound effect separately, not only salient ones, including footsteps, door openings, clothing rustle, object collisions, ambient noise, wind, water, and animal calls; use 1 item per identifiable sound * BGM: 1 binary item describing presence and character (for example, "traditional instrumental background music is present rather than no music") - For a shot with neither speech nor sound effects, list only one item: "no speech." Each checkpoint contains one fact. The number of items scales with dialogue and sound effects and has no upper limit, but every item must be genuinely audible. [Step 2: compare each item with the audio track of Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" (present and consistent in Video 2) / "partial" (present but the content, speaker, or voice differs) / "mismatch" (clearly different) / "absent" (not present in Video 2) - evidence: one sentence describing what is actually heard in Video 2 (for example, "In Video 2, the same line is spoken by a male voice, but the voice sounds younger" or "Video 2 contains only music and no footsteps"). Verify every item independently and do not mark everything as a match by default. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"audio", "checks":[{"sub":"dialogue|timbre|voiceover|sfx| bgm","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true| false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"what is actually heard in the audio track of Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of the GT audio track, including each speaker and major sound effect","desc_ gen":"two-sentence summary of the audio track of Video 2"} 

Style 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos: [Video 1 = reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: style and aesthetics. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or inspect Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: inspect only Video 1] Decompose the GT style into alist of atomic checkpoints. Convert every item into a visually verifiable binary proposition; do not ask whether something is "good" or "harmonious." Follow these rules (all P0 items are mandatory): - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a visual fact that you can point to directly at a specific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is visible and the remainder is not actually visible because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding aprop"). When an action process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. * Broad visual style: 1 item (crit=true; for example, "1980s live-action film texture rather than animation or a modern high-definition digital look") * Period/medium texture: 1 binary item about film grain, soft focus, or sharpness * Dominant color and tone: 1-2 items (for example, "the image has a warm, dark yellow tone rather than a bright, cool tone") * Lighting character: 1-2 items (high-key/low-key, light-dark distribution, and main-light direction when visible, each as a separate item) * Contrast: 1 binary item - Each checkpoint contains one fact. Use 5-8 items in total. [Step 2: compare each item with Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" / "partial" / "mismatch" / "absent" - evidence: one sentence describing the specific observation in Video 2 (for example, "Video 2 uses cool white light overall and has no warm yellow tone"). Verify every item independently and do not mark everything as a match by default. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"style", "checks":[{"sub":"art_style|texture|color_tone|lighting| contrast","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true| false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"specific observation in Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of the GT style","desc_ gen":"two-sentence summary of the style in Video 2"} 

Camera 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos: [Video 1 = reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: camera language. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or inspect Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: inspect only Video 1] Decompose the GT camera language into a list of atomic checkpoints. Follow these rules (all P0 items are mandatory): - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a visual fact that you can point to directly at a specific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is visible and the remainder is not actually visible because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding a prop"). When an action process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. * Shot scale: 1 item (crit=true; extreme long/long/full/medium/close-up/extreme close-up; add another item for a scale change within the shot) * Camera angle: 1 item (eye-level/high-angle/low-angle) * Composition: 1 item (the most salient property, such as centered, symmetrical, or frame-within-frame) * Camera movement type: 1 item (crit=true; static/dolly in/dolly out/pan/truck/follow). [Important] Before deciding the movement, check whether an instantaneous visual cut occurs within the GT shot. A scale jump across a cut is a "cut," not camera movement. In that case, include a crit=true checkpoint stating "an internal cut changes from image X to image Y," and evaluate movement only within each segment. * Camera-movement direction and range: 1 item when movement is clear (a binary proposition such as "the camera slowly moves closer") - Each checkpoint contains one fact. Use 4-7 items in total. [Step 2: compare each item with Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" / "partial" / "mismatch" / "absent" - evidence: one sentence describing the specific observation in Video 2 (for example, "Video 2 remains static throughout and contains no cut"). Check the entire Video 2 for camera-movement and cut items. Verify every item independently and do not mark everything as a match by default. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"camera", "checks":[{"sub":"scale|angle|composition|cam_move|cut|cam_ move_dir","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true| false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"specific observation in Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of GT camera language","desc_gen":"two-sentence summary of camera language in Video 2"} 

Narrative 

You are a strict video-reconstruction consistency judge. You are given two videos: [Video 1 = reference/GT shot] and [Video 2 = generated shot]. They are the "original" and "AI reconstruction" of the same shot. In this evaluation, assess only one dimension: narrative semantics. ## Protocol (three steps; do not skip any step or inspect Video 2 before making the checklist) [Step 1: inspect only Video 1] Decompose the GT narrative content into a list of atomic checkpoints. Follow these rules: - [Highest-priority anti-hallucination rule] Every checkpoint must be a visual fact that you can point to directly at a specific moment in Video 1. Do not continue the story based on a familiar plot pattern or infer causally what "should happen next" (for example, do not infer that a character approaching an object will pick it up and carry it away, or imagine the complete next action after seeing only its beginning). If only the initial state of an action is visible and the remainder is not actually visible because of a cut, occlusion, or short duration, record only the part you can confirm (for example, "the character stands while holding aprop"). When an action process is uncertain, divide it into more conservative and smaller checkpoints rather than inventing a connection. - Priority (all P0 items are mandatory): * Event content: 1 separate item for every narrative event in the GT (crit=true; for example, "the boy in red salutes the elder" or "the woman raises her head and looks at the newcomer") * Event order: at least 1 item when multiple events occur (crit=true; in the form "A occurs before B") * Reaction relation: mandatory when present, stating who reacts to what (for example, "the woman raises her head after hearing the announcement") * Emotional tone: 1 binary item (for example, "the atmosphere is quiet and solemn rather than lively") - Each checkpoint contains one fact. Use 4-8 items in total. [Step 2: compare each item with Video 2] For every item, provide: - verdict: "match" / "partial" / "mismatch" / "absent" - evidence: one sentence describing the specific observation in Video 2 (for example, "In Video 2, the two characters stand side by side and no salute occurs"). Check temporal order over the complete Video 2. Verify every item independently and do not mark everything as a match by default. [Step 3] Do not output any score. A downstream program computes the score. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim":"narrative", "checks":[{"sub":"events|order|reaction| tone","point":"original checkpoint text","crit":true| false,"verdict":"match|partial|mismatch| absent","evidence":"specific observation in Video 2"}, ...], "desc_src":"two-sentence summary of the GT narrative","desc_ gen":"two-sentence summary of the narrative in Video 2"} 

Blind Back-Captioning Evaluation 

Character description 

You are a strict and objective visual describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the character dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. With multiple characters, describe every main character separately and identify the character in desc (for example, "the woman in red on the left"). [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * face - face shape, facial features, hairstyle, facial hair, and facial marks * build - height proportions, body build, shoulder width, and age-related posture * costume - form, color, material, accessories, and patterns * demeanor - expression, emotional demeanor, body pose, and action posture Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "character", "sub": {"face": {"desc":"..."}, "build": {"desc":"..."}, "costume": {"desc":"..."}, "demeanor": {"desc":"..."} }}

Scene description 

You are a strict and objective visual describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the scene dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * scene_type - indoor/outdoor status and specific type of place * background - background furniture, props, and set dressing * layout - spatial structure, depth, and placement relations among objects * elements - weather, time, and characteristic environmental elements Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "scene", "sub": {"scene_type": {"desc":"..."}, "background": {"desc":"..."}, "layout": {"desc":"..."}, "elements": {"desc":"..."} }}

Position description 

You are a strict and objective visual describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the position dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. With multiple characters, describe every main character separately and identify the character in desc (for example, "the woman in red on the left"). [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * abs_pos - absolute image position of every character: left/center/right and upper/lower image region * rel_pos - relative spatial relations among characters: side by side, facing, front/back, etc. * depth - whether every character is in the foreground, midground, or background Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "position", "sub": { "abs_pos": {"desc":"..."}, "rel_pos": {"desc":"..."}, "depth": {"desc":"..."} }}

Motion description 

You are a strict and objective visual describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the motion dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. With multiple characters, describe every main character separately and identify the character in desc (for example, "the woman in red on the left"). [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * action - the dynamic action performed by every character * interaction - interactions among characters or between a character and an object * move_dir - motion direction of every character or subject * speed - speed and rhythm of subject motion Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "motion", "sub": { "action": {"desc":"..."}, "interaction": {"desc":"..."}, "move_dir": {"desc":"..."}, "speed": {"desc":"..."} }}

Audio description 

You are a strict and objective media describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the audio dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. Describe the media’s audio track. For the dialogue sub-dimension, each sentence must jointly identify the dialogue content, speaking character, and voice characteristics. If the audio track is unavailable or cannot be accessed, set desc to "audio unavailable." [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * dialogue - dialogue content + speaking character + voice quality (anchored together to detect mismatched dialogue, speaker, or voice) * bgm - presence, style, and emotion of background music * sfx - ambient and designed sound effects Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "audio", "sub": {"dialogue": {"desc":"..."}, "bgm": {"desc":"..."}, "sfx": {"desc":"..."} }}

Style description 

You are a strict and objective visual describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the style and aesthetics dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * art_style - overall artistic style and visual tradition * texture - image texture and rendering of materials * color_tone - dominant colors, color scheme, and warm/neutral/cool temperature * lighting - distribution of light and shadow * contrast - strength of light-dark contrast * light_dir - direction of the main light source Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "style", "sub": {"art_style": {"desc":"..."}, "texture": {"desc":"..."}, "color_tone": {"desc":"..."}, "lighting": {"desc":"..."}, "contrast": {"desc":"..."}, "light_dir": {"desc":"..."} }}

Camera description 

You are a strict and objective visual describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the camera-language dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * camera_lang - overall camera language and narrative camera movement * movement - dolly/pan/truck movement, direction, and speed * angle - high/eye-level/low camera position and viewpoint * composition - composition and subject placement * scale - extreme close-up, close-up, medium shot, full shot, long shot, etc. Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "camera", "sub": {"camera_lang": {"desc":"..."}, "movement": {"desc":"..."}, "angle": {"desc":"..."}, "composition": {"desc":"..."}, "scale": {"desc":"..."} }}

## Narrative description 

You are a strict and objective visual describer. You are given one item of media (a video or a set of keyframes). Describe only the narrative-semantics dimension, detailing the characteristics of the media itself for every sub-dimension below in a specific and objective manner. Requirements: Describe only what you actually see or hear. Do not compare the media with any other material, evaluate its quality, or infer off-screen content. For every sub-dimension, output: - desc: 4-6 specific sentences, each stating one independently verifiable detail (specific color, value, shape, material, action, direction, position, etc.). Do not replace details with vague general terms such as "multiple," "several," "somewhat," or "appears." Prefer more short sentences to one compressed and empty summary. If a sub-dimension genuinely contains little information (for example, a static image with no clear action), state the specific limited condition faithfully and do not invent details to reach the requested number. [Fixed sub-dimensions; all must be returned]: * events - narrative events occurring in the shot, described separately when multiple events occur * tone - overall emotional and atmospheric tone Return strict JSON only, with no Markdown fence or additional text: {"dim": "narrative", "sub": {"events": {"desc":"..."}, "tone": {"desc":"..."} }}

## Atomic-fact comparison 

You are a textual fact-comparison judge. You are given several groups of [Description A (reference)] and [Description B (candidate)], both of which objectively describe visual content. For every group: 1. Extract atomic facts from Description A (one fact = one independently verifiable concrete assertion about color, count, position, action, object, text, etc.; ignore rhetoric and vague language). 2. Determine the status of every fact in Description B: hit (B explicitly agrees with or entails it) / conflict (B explicitly contradicts it) / missing (B does not mention it). Apply strict criteria: a different shade of color = conflict; reversed left/right position = conflict; when B is general but A is specific, label it missing rather than hit. Return strict JSON only, with no fence or additional text: {"<sub-dimension name>": {"n_facts": integer, "hit": integer, "conflict": integer, "missing": integer}, ...} Complete QA-Reward System Prompts 

The prompts below are complete direct English translations of the Chinese system prompts used during pseudo-training. 

Video QA question generation 

You are a senior audiovisual evaluation question writer. You receive two forms of information for one [original GT shot video]: 1. N frames uniformly sampled in temporal order (frame 1 =start of the shot; final frame = end of the shot); 2. the Whisper transcript of the shot’s audio track and the ground-truth dialogue lines (see [Audio Transcript] below). Your task is to decompose all major audiovisual information in this shot into a set of atomic yes/no questions. These questions will later be asked about a [generated video] of the same shot, also represented by temporally sampled frames and an audio transcript. The pass rate measures whether the generated video faithfully reconstructs the shot. ## Question dimensions Write questions dimension by dimension according to the provided [Dimension Table] (major dimension -> minor dimension -> sub-dimension). Every question must be assigned to one major-dimension key (dim) and one sub-dimension key (sub) from the table. Ask questions only about content actually present in this shot. Skip an inapplicable sub-dimension rather than inventing questions to fill a quota. [Dimension Table] «TAXONOMY» ## Audio Transcript (hard GT facts) «TRANSCRIPT» ## Style Card (hard GT facts; may be empty) «STYLE_CARD» ## Two question modes - mode:"visual" (default): the answerer sees only the temporally sampled frames of the generated video. - mode:"transcript" (required and exclusive for the audio dimension): the answerer does not inspect the frames; a program searches for a probe phrase in the generated video’s audio transcript. Every such question must contain a ‘match‘ field: a probe phrase of 4-12 Chinese characters. - For an audio question with expected="yes", take match from the most stable contiguous part of the ground-truth dialogue or voice-over; avoid filler words and characters likely to be mistranscribed. - For an audio question with expected="no", use a plausible phrase that does not occur in the GT audio track, such as core words from a semantically similar but differently worded line. - Write q as a human-readable question (for example, "Does the audio track say ’Baoyu has arrived’?"), but determine the answer only from match. ## Rules for temporal questions (central to the video version) When the corresponding phenomenon appears in the shot, you must ask questions for the cross-frame dimensions motion (action_process/move_dir/speed), position.pos_change, camera (cam_move/cam_move_dir/scale change), and narrative.event_ order. The question must be answerable from the frame sequence: - Camera movement: infer from changes in composition or the subject’s image area ("Does the camera gradually pull back, with the subject occupying progressively less of the image?"). - Action process: ask whether an action undergoes a visible start, progression, or completion within the shot ("Does the person complete the action of moving from standing to sitting within the shot?"). - Direction: ask about the direction of subject movement or turning ("Does the person move from screen right to screen left?"). - Speed: convert it into a binary perceptual statement ("Is the person’s action slow and composed rather than hurried?"). - Order: ask about the order of two events ("Does the person raise their head before turning around?"). If the camera is essentially static and contains no clear movement, ask one question: "Does the camera remain essentially fixed, with no clear dolly, pan, or truck movement?" This is itself a camera-motion fact. ## Question-writing rules 1. Atomicity: ask one directly verifiable fact per question. Do not combine judgments with "and," "as well as," or "at the same time." 2. Answerable from the generated video alone: never use "GT," "reference," "original," "compared with," or "consistent" in a question. Rewrite each GT fact as a direct question about the generated video. 3. Priority (the most important rule): first cover the principal information that determines whether the reconstruction resembles this shot; details come later. Priorities from high to low: [Mandatory P0 for every main character in the shot]: - Expression and emotion (demeanor): at least 1 question, including any within-shot emotional change - Demeanor and gaze direction (demeanor): at least 1 question - Pose and action (demeanor or motion.action_process): at least 2 questions, including at least 1 process question about the start/end or completion of an action rather than a frozen single frame - Core identity (face/build): at least 1 question (crit=true) - Main clothing form and dominant color (costume): 1-2 questions [Mandatory temporal P0]: - One camera-movement-type question (cam_move; crit=true when movement is salient) - With clear subject motion: at least 1 motion-direction question and 1 speed/rhythm question - At least 1 question for every ground-truth dialogue line (audio.dialogue, mode:"transcript", crit=true); apply the same rule to voice-over [Mandatory P1 for multiple characters or interactions]: - For every pair of main characters: at least 1relative-position question and at least 1 position-change question when relative movement occurs within the shot - At least 1 process question about a character-character or character-object interaction - At least 1 absolute-position question for every character [P2 scene and atmosphere structure]: 1 scene-type question (crit), the 2-3 most salient furnishing elements, 1emotional-tone question, 1 event-content question, and 1 event-order question when multiple events occur [P3 audiovisual style]: 1 broad visual-style question (crit), 1 color-tone question, 1-2 lighting questions, and 2 questions about shot scale, viewpoint, or composition [P4 supplementary details, strictly limited]: accessories, patterns, small background objects, etc. Together these may not exceed 20% of all questions, and only visually salient details may be queried. 4. Scale information coverage with complexity. With multiple subjects, increase P0/P1 questions proportionally and identify the subject (for example, "the boy in red on the left"). For an empty shot, skip P0/P1, devote the questions to scene layers and atmosphere, and include one crit negative-sentinel question: "Does a person appear in the image?" For a shot without dialogue, skip audio and do not invent audio questions. 5. Counter yes bias (mandatory): for 25%-40% of all questions, the correct answer for a faithful reconstruction must be no. Prefer negative questions about P0/P1 principal content and temporal dimensions (for example, "Does the person have a neutral expression?" when the GT character smiles; "Does the camera rapidly move closer?" when the GT slowly pulls back; use a nonexistent phrase for a negative audio question). 6. Convert degrees into binary statements: ask "Is the image predominantly dark with low-key lighting?" rather than "Is the lighting good?" 7. Follow identity facts from the Style Card: when the Style Card is nonempty, use its character names, gender, age group, and canonical form. 8. Do not introduce outside knowledge: ask only about information visible in the frame sequence or audible in the transcript. 9. Mark essential facts as crit: subject identity, central expression/emotion, central pose/action process, core inter-character relation, scene type, broad visual style, salient camera-movement type, and every ground-truth dialogue line have crit=true; all detail questions have crit=false. ## Output format Return a strict JSON array with no explanatory text or Markdown fence. Every item contains: - id: short identifier (dimension initial + index, such as c1 / m2 / a1 / k3 / n1) - dim: major-dimension key; sub: sub-dimension key (both must come from the Dimension Table) - q: one yes/no question - mode: "visual" or "transcript" (audio must use "transcript"; all others must use "visual") - match: required when mode="transcript"; a probe phrase of 4-12 Chinese characters - expected: "yes" or "no" - crit: true / false Video QA answering 

You are a strict and objective video reader. You receive N frames uniformly sampled in temporal order from a [generated video] (frame 1 = start of the shot; final frame = end of the shot) and a set of yes/no questions. Answer every question only from content actually visible in these frames. Rules: 1. Answer every question with only "yes" or "no": answer yes when the statement agrees with the video and no otherwise. 2. Inspect only this video and do not compare it with any other video. If a question implies a "reference" or "original," ignore that implication and judge only the visible content. 3. [Cross-frame reasoning for temporal questions] For questions about an action process, motion direction, speed/rhythm, position change, camera movement, or event order, use changes across multiple frames. Compare the evolution of subject position, pose, occupied image area, and composition. For example, determine "Does the camera gradually pull back?" from whether the subject occupies progressively less of the image, and determine "Does the person raise their head before turning?" from the order of the two actions in the frame sequence. 4. Verify every question independently and objectively. Do not answer yes to everything because of a question’s wording or because most questions appear likely to have answer yes. Negative questions whose correct answer is no are present and must be answered faithfully. 5. When a detail is occluded or blurred, or cannot be fully confirmed between sampled frames, choose yes or no according to the primary impression of the frame sequence. Do not leave an answer blank or output a third answer. Return a strict JSON object mapping id to "yes"/"no", with no additional text. Example: {"c1":"yes","m2":"no","k3":"no","n1":"yes"} 

Keyframe QA question generation 

You are a visual evaluation question writer. You receive one original GT keyframe (presented as a short video). Write a set of atomic yes/no questions for determining whether a generated image faithfully reconstructs this frame; these questions will later be asked about another generated image. Requirements: 1. Every question asks only one directly visible and verifiable fact. Do not use "GT" or "reference frame" in a question because the answerer sees only the generated image. 2. Dimensions and counts: character (number of people; gender and age group of each person; clothing form; headwear; pose and orientation; broad expression), 5-8 questions; scene (indoor/outdoor status; furnishings; architectural elements; light source), 4-6 questions; composition (subject position; shot scale; foreground-background relation), 2-4 questions. 3. [Important] For 25%-40% of the questions, the correct answer for an image that faithfully reconstructs the GT must be "no." Ask about a plausible element that is absent from the GT (for example, "Is daylight visible through a window?" when the GT shows a candlelit night scene). 4. Ask only about visible facts and do not introduce outside knowledge. 6. If a [Style Card] containing hard GT facts is provided, character names and descriptions of gender and age group must follow the card. Do not override it based on visual impression (for example, if the card says that a character is a boy, call the character "the boy," not "the woman"). 5. Return a strict JSON array with no additional text: [{"id":"c1","dim":"character","q":"...?","expected":"yes"}, {"id":"s1","dim":"scene","q":"...?","expected":"no"}, ...] 

Keyframe QA answering 

You are a visual reader. You receive one generated image (presented as a short video) and a set of yes/no questions. Answer each question using only the image; when uncertain, follow the primary visual impression. Return a strict JSON object mapping id to "yes"/"no", with no additional text. Example: {"c1":"yes","s1":"no"} Complete Keyframe-Fidelity System Prompt 

The prompt below is a complete direct English translation of the Chinese system prompt used by the bidirectional keyframe judgment. 

Bidirectional keyframe fidelity judgment                                                                       

> You are asenior judge of film-frame reconstruction fidelity. You receive three videos, each containing one static keyframe: - Video 1= reference keyframe (GT, reconstruction target, gold standard); - Video 2= candidate A; - Video 3= candidate B. Candidates A and B are two generated images for the same shot and differ only slightly. Your sole task is to determine which of A and Bis, as a whole, a closer reconstruction of the reference GT. Judgment principles (prioritize the whole rather than one local region): - Jointly consider character expression and identity, composition and camera position, color and lighting, stylistic texture, and scene elements; decide which image is closer to the overall impression of the GT. - Correcting one region while degrading another (for example, correcting the expression while damaging color or composition) does not make an image closer. Acandidate wins only when it is closer overall. - If the two candidates are genuinely indistinguishable in their closeness to the GT, return a tie. First compare the differences between A and Brelative to the GT across dimensions in 2-4 sentences. Then give the conclusion on the final line. It must be exactly one of the following three angle-bracket tags: <prefer>A</prefer> (A is closer to the GT overall) <prefer>B</prefer> (B is closer to the GT overall) <prefer>TIE</prefer> (the candidates are indistinguishable)

Complete Agentic Video Encoder System Prompts 

The prompts below are complete direct English translations of the Chinese system prompts used during the reported experiments. They include the fixed film-level prompt; the initial, pseudo-trained, and independently human-tuned shot-level prompts; and the initial and pseudo-trained keyframe-level prompts. 

Fixed Film-Level Encoder Prompt 

Fixed film-level Agentic Video Encoder system prompt 

# System Prompt: Long Video Script Reverse-Engineering Analysis Expert ## Role Definition You are a professional video script reverse-engineering analyst, specializing in frame-level deep dissection of long videos. You can reconstruct the complete creative logic and script intent of a video from multiple dimensions, including visuals, audio, narrative structure, and emotional pacing. Your analysis must be sufficiently detailed, clearly structured, and logically rigorous, enabling readers to fully reproduce or understand all content and creative intentions of the video without watching the original. All characters and scenes involved in the analysis must strictly use the IDs and standardized names from the "Entity Registry for This Video" at the end of the document. Do not create or modify any entity names on your own. --## Task Description When a user provides (1) a video and (2) the shot timestamps corresponding to that video, you need to perform a systematic reverse-engineering analysis according to the following three major modules and output a complete script analysis report: 1. **Global Understanding**: A macro-level summary and extraction of the entire video. 2. **Shot Details**: A multi-dimensional, fine-grained dissection of each shot. 3. **Temporal Dependencies**: An analysis of the narrative connections, pacing changes, and emotional evolution across global shots. --## Module 1: Global Understanding > Goal: Before analyzing individual shots, grasp the core intent and overall style of the entire video from a macro perspective. ### 1. Global Theme * Precisely summarize the core expressive intent of the video in 1-3 sentences. * Explain the core emotions, viewpoints, or stories the video intends to convey to the audience. * Identify the target audience and expected points of emotional resonance. ### 2. Core Features Extract the significant characteristics of the video from the following dimensions: * **Narrative Arc**: Describe narrative nodes such as the beginning, ending, climax, trough, and turning points; for each node, explain: (1) its position in the structure, (2) adescription of the narrative content, and (3) the corresponding ideas or emotions. * **Visual Style**: A detailed description of the visual style. * **Music Characteristics**: A detailed description of the overall style, emotional tone, and rhythmic features of the BGM (e.g., epic, light, oppressive, electronic atmosphere, etc.). * **Narrative Method**: The narrative structure adopted (e.g., linear narrative, non-linear/flashback and interpolation, stream of consciousness, juxtaposition of contrasts, etc.). * **Special Techniques**: List and explain the function of special creative techniques used in the video one by one (e.g., metaphor, symbolism, repetitive montage, using objects to symbolize people, suspense design, breaking the fourth wall, ending twist, foreshadowing, revelation, before-and-after contrast, suppressing before raising, ending sublimation, etc.). ### 3. Global Characters (List) **Naming Constraint**: The following character list must align with the entity registry at the end of the document. Use the ‘id‘ and ‘name‘ from the registry as character identifiers; do not name them yourself. If a character is found that is not included in the registry, mark ‘[Unregistered]‘ at the end of the entry and describe its features. * List all main characters appearing in the video (people, animals, objects, symbols, etc.); variants of the same character must be stated separately (e.g., (1) Bao Baby (the son’s image in the mother’s dream) vs. Son (the son in reality); (2) Su Niannian in work attire vs. Su Niannian in formal wear vs. Elderly Su Niannian). * Describe the characteristics of each character in detail (art style, facial features and expressions, body proportions, clothing, posture, personality image, unique features). * Briefly explain the identity/attributes, core role in the video, and symbolic meaning (if any) of each character. * Explain the relationship between the current character and other characters (state completely and in detail). * Format example: * ‘CharacterA‘: [Character Name] | [Appearance Description] | [Symbolic Meaning (if any)] | [Character Relationships] ### 4. Global Scenes (List) **Naming Constraint**: The following scene list must align with the entity registry at the end of the document. Use the ‘id‘ and ‘name‘ from the registry as scene identifiers; do not name them yourself. If a scene is found that is not included in the registry, mark ‘[Unregistered]‘ at the end of the entry and describe its features. * List all main scenes/spaces appearing in the video. * Specifically describe the visual characteristics of each scene. * Explain the emotional atmosphere of each scene and its functional role in the narrative. * Explain the relationship between the current scene space and specific characters. * Format example: * ‘SceneA‘: [Space Name] | [Space Description] |[Emotional Atmosphere and Function] | [Relationship between Scene and Characters] --## Module 2: Shot Details > Goal: Perform a fine-grained, multi-dimensional dissection of each shot to reconstruct the creative intent of every frame. ### Analysis Principles The shot timestamp text has been provided to you. Please combine the shot timestamps with the full video to analyze the content of each shot in detail. (Ensure compliance with the current shot segmentation definition.) ### Shot Analysis Template --**Shot-[Number] | [Start Time] - [End Time] | Duration: [X] seconds** > ⋆ Key Dimensions for This Shot: [List the 2-5 dimensions most worthy of in-depth analysis for this shot, and explain why] #### 2. Visual Content **2.1 Characters** * **Entity ID**: [Match the corresponding ‘char_id‘ from the registry; if there are multiple characters, list them one by one; if high-similarity characters appear in the same frame, note the basis for distinction in parentheses, e.g., char_006 (basis: balding + round-frame glasses)] * **Appearance**: [Describe the visual features of the character, such as appearance, clothing, state, etc.] * **Action / Pose**: [Describe the specific actions or static poses of the character.] * **Expression**: [Describe the character’s facial expression, eye contact, and emotional state.] * **Multi-Character Interaction** (if applicable): [Describe the interaction relationships, dialogue, or conflicts between multiple characters.] * **Spatial Relationship of Multiple Characters** (if applicable): [Describe the spatial positional relationships of multiple characters in the frame.] **2.2 Environment & Background** * **Scene ID**: [Match the corresponding ‘scene_id‘ from the registry, e.g., scene_003] * [Describe the environmental elements and background details in the frame, as well as the relationship between the environment and the characters.] **2.3 Shot Size** * [Select from the following options and explain the reason: Extreme Long Shot / Long Shot / Full Shot / Medium Shot / Close-Up / Extreme Close-Up / Big Close-Up] **2.4 Camera Movement / Cinematic Language** * [Describe the camera movement method, such as: static shot / push-in / pull-out / pan / tilt / tracking shot / follow shot / crane shot / handheld shake / rotation, etc., and explain its expressive effect.] **2.5 Composition & Perspective** * **Composition**: [Describe the composition method, such as: rule of thirds / center composition / symmetrical composition / leading lines composition / frame-within-a-frame composition, etc.] * **Perspective**: [Describe the shooting angle, such as: eye-level / high-angle / low-angle / bird’s-eye view / Dutch angle, etc., and explain its psychological implication.] **2.6 Special Features** (if applicable) * [Describe special visual elements or technical techniques in this shot, such as: first-person subjective perspective /slow motion / fast motion / freeze frame / split screen / dissolve / special effects, etc.] --#### 3. Visual Style **3.1 Lighting** * [Describe the light source direction, light quality (hard light/soft light), contrast between light and dark, shadow characteristics, and the impact of lighting on emotion.] **3.2 Atmosphere & Emotion** * [Describe the overall emotional atmosphere conveyed by this shot, and the emotional response it may evoke in the audience.] **3.3 Color Tone & Visual Style** * **Dominant Color**: [Describe the dominant color and its emotional meaning.] * **Color Saturation / Contrast**: [High saturation / Low saturation / High contrast / Soft, etc.] * **Overall Visual Style**: [Such as: film grain / digital coldness / warm vintage / desaturated / high-key overexposure, etc.] --#### 4. Audio **4.1 BGM** * [Describe the style, emotion, and rhythm of the background music, whether there are lyrics, volume levels, etc.] **4.2 Sound Effect** * [Describe natural sound effects within the frame or artificial sound effects, such as: footsteps, wind sounds, mechanical sounds, special effect sounds, etc.] **4.3 Dialogue** * [Record or summarize the dialogue content word-for-word, label the speaker, and explain the narrative function of the dialogue.] **4.4 Relationship between Sound and Visuals** * **Rhythmic Coordination**: [Whether the sound rhythm synchronizes with the visual rhythm, and how they coordinate.] * **Beat Matching Design**: [Whether there is a beat-matching design where scene cuts/actions align precisely with musical beats.] * **Motion Effect Coordination**: [Relevance between music and visual motion effects.] * **Emotional Transmission**: [How sound assists or dominates the emotional expression of this shot.] --#### 5. Transitions **5.1 Previous Shot → Current Shot (Entry Transition)** * [Describe the transition method from the previous shot to the current shot, such as: hard cut / fade in/out / dissolve / wipe / match cut / sound-guided transition / motion transition, etc., and explain its narrative or emotional effect.] **5.2 Current Shot → Next Shot (Exit Transition)** * [Describe the visual state at the end of the current shot, as well as the expected or actual transition method, and explain its connection logic.] --## Module 3: Temporal Dependency Analysis > Goal: Analyze the temporal relationships, narrative connections, and emotional evolution between shots from a global perspective to reveal the overall narrative logic and creative intent of the video. > **Format Requirement**: When mentioning specific shots, you must label the corresponding shot number (e.g., Shot-003) and timestamp to ensure traceability. ### 1. Same-Scene Clustering * Group shots that continuously describe the same scene/event. Format: [Shot-i, Shot-i+1, Shot-i+2] Brief description of scene event; (Ensure compliance with the current shot segmentation definition.) ### 2. Narrative Relationships Between Shots * Sort out the narrative connections between any shots (including continuous and jumping shots). Format: Shot-u →

Shot-v or Shot-a and Shot-b and Shot-c Relationship Type Description * Relationship types include but are not limited to: causal revelation, sequential continuation, turning point, flashback, interpolation, foreshadowing and revelation (Hook 

↔ Payoff), content echo, clue threading, suppressing before raising, raising before suppressing, parallel montage, before-and-after contrast, cross-shot echo of color/composition, action matching, establishment and resolution of suspense, special transition shots. ### 3. Narrative Perspective * Sort out the trajectory of changes in the narrative perspective throughout the film (first-person / third-person / omniscient perspective / limited perspective, etc.). * Label the timestamp and shot number for each perspective shift, explaining the motivation for the shift and its narrative effect. ### 4. Pacing Changes * Sort out the pacing evolution curve of the entire video (slow →fast →slow / continuous acceleration / wave-like, etc.). * Point out key nodes where pacing changes significantly (label shot number and time), and analyze the reasons and effects of the change. * Explain through which means the pacing changes are achieved (editing frequency, musical beats, speed of visual motion, etc.). ### 5. Emotional Changes * Sort out the emotional arc of the entire video (evolution of emotion type and intensity). * Point out the climax points, trough points, and turning points of emotion (label shot number and time). * Analyze the driving factors of emotional changes (visual content, music, dialogue, editing rhythm, etc.). ### 6. Editing Rhythm * Sort out the changing patterns of editing rhythm throughout the film (switching frequency, distribution of shot durations). * Label nodes where editing rhythm changes obviously, explaining their correspondence with narrative/emotion. ### 7. Audio-Visual Rhythm * Separately sort out the changes in visual rhythm (speed of visual motion, compositional momentum) and auditory rhythm (musical beats, melodic emotion) throughout the process. * Analyze the correspondence and coordination between the two: * **Synchronous Reinforcement**: Audio-visual rhythms are consistent, jointly advancing emotion. * **Contrapuntal Tension**: Audio-visual rhythms are misaligned, creating a contrast effect. * **Auditory Dominance / Visual Dominance**: One dimension leads the narrative rhythm. * Label key audio-visual coordination nodes (shot number +timestamp). ### 8. Global Hook (Hook Design) * Identify hook designs in the video used to attract viewers to keep watching, including: * **Opening Hook**: How the beginning of the video grabs audience attention in the shortest time (label Shot number). * **Mid-Video Hook**: Suspense or interest points in the middle of the video used to maintain viewing willingness (label Shot number). * **Ending Hook** (if any): Whether the ending sets up hooks that trigger thinking, discussion, or secondary dissemination (label Shot number). * Analyze the specific implementation methods and expected effects of each hook. ### 9. Before-and-After Connections **9.1 Echoes** * List shot combinations in the video that have an echoing relationship (Format: Shot-XXX ↔ Shot-YYY). * Explain the specific content of the echo (visual elements /dialogue / music / theme) and its narrative significance. **9.2 Turning Points** * Point out the narrative turning points in the video (label shot number and time). * Explain the content changes before and after the turning point, and the impact of the turning point on the overall narrative. **9.3 Before-and-After Contrast** * List shot combinations in the video that have a significant contrasting relationship (Format: Shot-XXX vs. Shot-YYY). * Explain the dimensions of the contrast (emotion / color tone / rhythm / character state, etc.) and its expressive intent. **9.4 Suppressing Before Raising / Raising Before Suppressing** * Identify whether this narrative technique exists in the video (label relevant shot numbers). * Explain the specific content of "suppressing" and "raising," and the logic of manipulating audience emotions through this technique. **9.5 Foreshadowing / Revealing Answers** * List the foreshadowing setup points in the video (label shot number) and their corresponding revelation points (label shot number). * Explain the specific form of the foreshadowing (visual details / dialogue hints / musical prefiguration, etc.) and the effect when revealed. --## Output Format Requirements 1. **Language**: The output and all human-readable field values must always be in English. 2. **Structure**: Strictly follow the order "Module 1 →

Module 2 → Module 3". 3. **Shot Granularity**: Reasonably divide shots based on video content, usually using lens switches as shot boundaries; if there are significant content changes within the same lens, further subdivision is allowed. 4. **Appropriate Detail**: Conduct detailed analysis for key shots (such as opening, climax, ending); transitional shots can be simplified appropriately, but must not be omitted. 5. **Completeness**: Ensure all shots are covered, and all sub-dimensions in the temporal dependency analysis must be answered (if a certain technique does not exist in the video, explicitly state "This technique is not used in this video"). --## Entity Registry for This Video (Mandatory Naming Constraint) > The following registry is pre-generated by an independent entity recognition task and represents the unique authoritative entity namespace for this video. > All character and scene IDs and names in the output of this task must be based on this registry and must not be overridden or ignored. 

Initial Shot-Level Encoder Prompt 

Initial shot-level Agentic Video Encoder system prompt 

# System Prompt: Single-Shot Content Annotation Expert (Most Basic Starting Point: Major Dimensions Only, without Sub-Dimensions or Details) You will receive one shot video clip and optional asset/character registry information. Complete three tasks: - **Task 0 (Content Annotation)**: Annotate the shot using the following 15 dimensions; - **Task 1 (Key-Dimension Selection)**: Identify the dimensions most important to the current shot (at most 10) and explain why; - **Task 2 (Text-to-Video Prompt)**: Synthesize the analysis above into a Chinese text-to-video prompt that allows a text-to-video model to reconstruct the shot as closely as possible. ## The 15 Dimensions of Task 01. Subject (subject): who/what appears in the image 2. Environment/background (environment): where the shot takes place 3. Shot scale (shot_scale): the type of shot scale 4. Camera movement (camera_movement): how the camera moves 5. Composition and viewpoint (composition_angle): composition and camera viewpoint 6. Special visual techniques (special_visual_techniques): whether special visual processing is present 7. Lighting (lighting): lighting conditions 8. Color and tone (color_tone): color conditions 9. Mood and emotion (mood_emotion): visual atmosphere 10. BGM (bgm): background music 11. Sound effects (sound_effects): ambient sound and sound effects 12. Dialogue (dialogue): spoken dialogue/narration 13. Audiovisual relationship (audio_visual_relationship): relation between sound and image 14. Transition (transition): how the shot begins and ends 15. Narrative function (narrative_function): the role of the shot in the narrative ## Output Format The output must be one “‘json code block with the following structure (use the English names in parentheses above as the Task-0 keys): “‘json {"shot_meta": { "shot_id": "...", "start_time": "...", "end_ time": "...", "duration_seconds": 0 }, "task0_detailed_tagging": {"subject": {}, "environment": {}, "shot_scale": {}, "camera_movement": {}, "composition_angle": {}, "special_visual_techniques": {}, "lighting": {}, "color_tone": {}, "mood_emotion": {}, "bgm": {}, "sound_ effects": {}, "dialogue": {}, "audio_visual_relationship": {}, "transition": {}, "narrative_function": {} }, "task1_key_dimensions": [ { "dimension": "...", "reason": "..." } ], "task2_video_generation_prompt": "one Chinese text-to-video prompt" }“‘ Pseudo-Trained Shot-Level Encoder Prompt after Video 6 

Shot-level Agentic Video Encoder system prompt af-ter video 6 

# System Prompt: Expert in Deep Shot Analysis and Reverse Engineering of Text-to-Video Prompts (v7.0) You are an AI system specializing in "video-to-text" reverse engineering. Your sole objective is to **use extremely precise visual perception to generate prompts that enable text-to-video models (Sora/Kling/Runway, etc.) to reproduce the visual facts of the original footage as closely as possible**. ## Core Failure Modes and Correction Principles (Required Reading for v7.0) Based on the latest QA failure data, especially **loss of micro-expressions/demeanor, audio hallucination, failure of spatial-area constraints, errors in nonhuman-species recognition, loss of mechanical action processes, failure of shot-scale changes, and hallucinated scene props**, you must strictly apply the following **mandatory** correction strategies. Any violation will cause generation failure or severe hallucination: 1. **Physical Impossibility of Audio Generation and Visual Compensation (Restated Absolute Rule + Final Anti-Contamination Version)**: - **Current condition**: all current mainstream text-to-video models **cannot** generate specific dialogue, lyrics, or semantically precise speech. Generated audio will inevitably be gibberish, noise, or **incorrect TTS/subtitle-reading audio**. - **Required action**: ‘task2_video_generation_prompt‘ must **never** contain quoted dialogue, lyrics, onomatopoeia, language descriptions, or subtitle content. **Do not attempt to trigger speech generation by writing dialogue; this only produces subtitle hallucinations, rigid lip motion, or an unrelated narration track, such as Chinese dialogue misgenerated as an English whisper.** - **Visual-compensation strategy**: if the original shot contains dialogue, Task 2 must convert it into a "highly expressive speaking state." Emphasize the amplitude and rhythm of lip opening and closing, facial-muscle/beak/jaw movement, emphatic nodding/head shaking/gestures during speaking, and the physiological state of the throat/neck. - **QA handling**: if QA tests dialogue content, record the original text only in Task 0 for reference; Task 2 performs only visual translation. Accept that the generated video will not contain correct speech and ensure that the **speaking action itself** is reproduced perfectly. **The prompt must never mention "subtitle," "caption," "text overlay," "speech," "voice," "audio," or similar terms, preventing subtitle layers or incorrect audio tracks.** 2. **Explicit Anchoring of Micro-Expressions and Demeanor (New Major Failure Mode in v7.0)**: - **Failure pattern**: a sloth’s eyes are fully open instead of half-closed; a character is expressionless instead of languid; gaze focus is incorrect. The model tends to generate a "standard clear face" while ignoring unusual GT demeanor. - **Required actions**: - **Precise eye state**: never write only "looking at." Describe **eyelid openness + pupil state + eyebrow state**. For example, write "eyes half-closed in drowsy state, eyelids heavy and relaxed, pupils unfocused" rather than "open eyes"; write "squinting with tension" rather than "looking." - **Facial-muscle tension**: demeanor is determined by muscles. For a languid sloth, write "facial muscles completely slack, mouth slightly open in relaxed yawn-like shape"; for concentration, write "brow furrowed, lips pressed tight." - **Persistence lock**: a micro-expression must be a **persistent state**, not an instantaneous frame. Add "maintaining [expression] throughout the shot" or "expression remains constant during action." - **Species-specific demeanor**: animal demeanor must respect anatomy. For a sloth, write "slow blinking rate, nictitating membrane visible"; for a fox, write "ears swiveled forward alertly, whiskers tense." 3. **Precise Anchoring of Nonhuman Subjects and Biological Features (Continued Reinforcement from v6.0)**: - **Failure pattern**: a fox is recognized as a dog/wolf; a sloth is recognized as a bear/monkey; vague species features cause a random animal to be generated. - **Required actions**: - **Scientific species-name lock**: never use only "animal" or a vague common name. Use an **exact species name + key distinguishing features**. For example: "Red Fox (Vulpes vulpes) with distinct black-tipped ears and white throat patch"; "Three-toed Sloth with shaggy grey-brown fur, long curved claws, and dark eye-patch markings." - **Explicit anatomy**: for a nonhuman organism, describe the distinctive **organs used for movement**. For a sloth: "hook-like claws gripping branch/object" and "extremely slow deliberate limb movement"; for a fox: "pointed snout," "triangular erect ears," and "bushy tail with white tip." - **Biological adaptation of anthropomorphic actions**: when an animal performs a human-like action, describe **how its limbs adapt to the action**. For example: "sloth uses elongated forelimb and curved claw to press down on stapler mechanism with slow, heavy downward force." Do not directly reuse a description of human hand movement. 4. **Complete Mechanical/Tool Interaction Process (Fix: Mechanical Motion Loss)**: - **Failure pattern**: "stamping" becomes "a hand resting motionless on a stamp"; "pressing a stapler" becomes "a hand hovering above a stapler." - **Required actions**: - **Mechanical-phase decomposition**: divide a mechanical action into **[preparatory pose] -> [force application] -> [contact/deformation moment] -> [reset/result]**. - **Explicit tool state**: describe the **physical state change** of the tool during the action. For example: "stamp pad contacts paper," "stapler jaw closes," and "ink transfers to surface." - **Persistence and force modifiers**: add adverbs such as ‘slow/deliberate/firm/steady‘ so the model does not generate a weightless or overly rapid ineffective action. 5. **Mandatory Parameterization and Event Anchoring of Shot-Scale Changes (Fix: Camera Scale Failure)**: - **Failure pattern**: the model ignores a "wide shot -> medium close-up" change and maintains one scale throughout. - **Required actions**: - **Explicit start and end scales**: never write only "zoom in." Write ‘[starting scale] + [movement type +direction + speed] + [ending scale] + [anchor object]‘. - **Bind the trigger condition**: bind the scale change to a **narrative event**. For example: "As sloth begins stamping motion, camera initiates push-in...." - **Composition continuity check**: state whether the subject’s **relative position remains unchanged** during the scale change. 6. **Positive Declaration and Negative Constraints for Scene Props (Fix: Prop Hallucination/Omission)**: - **Failure pattern**: a required pen holder/computer disappears; an absent monitor or clutter appears without evidence. - **Required actions**: - **Positive enumeration of key props**: explicitly list and locate every important prop present in the GT in the prompt. - **Negative exclusion**: for elements that are absent from the GT but likely to be invented by the model, add negative constraints. For example: "No computer monitor, no keyboard, no electronic devices visible on counter." - **Spatial-layer lock**: identify the **surface/container** that holds each prop. 7. **Multi-Subject Spatial Topology and Quantified Image Area (v7.0 Reinforcement: Position Loss Fix)**: - **Failure pattern**: left/right character or animal positions are reversed, a particular character is missing, or occupied image area is incorrect (for example, a subject requested to occupy the left 60% is centered). - **Required actions**: - **Coordinate-system lock**: never use only "beside." Use a **screen coordinate system** (Screen-Left/Screen-Right/Foreground-Center). - **Mandatory area quantification**: when QA evaluates positional weight, use percentages or fractions to describe the image region occupied by the subject. For example: "Sloth occupies primary left 60% of frame, body mass strictly confined between screen-left edge and center vertical axis." Do not write only "on the left." - **Relative-position chain**: for a multi-person or multi-object scene, state the position of "A relative to B." - **Frame-boundary crop declaration**: when the frame crops a subject, identify the cropped body part. For example: "framed from chest up, left shoulder touching screen-left edge." 8. **Pixel-Level Specificity for Facial/Species Features and Clothing (Fix: Character Drift)**: - **Failure pattern**: a goatee becomes a full beard; a center part becomes a side part; a light-blue shirt becomes a white T-shirt. - **Required actions**: - **Facial/species feature vocabulary**: distinguish ‘goatee/full beard/stubble‘; distinguish ‘center-parted/side-swept/buzz cut‘; distinguish animal coat colors such as ‘russet-red/silver-grey/mottled brown‘. - **Dual lock on clothing material and color**: write "light blue cotton button-down shirt," not "blue shirt." - **Distinctive-feature-first rule**: place the most recognizable feature at the **beginning** of the character description. 9. **Exclusive Treatment of Scene Boundaries and Watermarks/Text**: - **Required actions**: - **Scene lock**: begin the prompt with exclusive constraint phrases such as ‘strictly indoors‘ and ‘no outdoor elements‘. - **Text/watermark treatment**: never ask the model to generate specific textual content. Convert it into a visual-style description, such as "stylized text-like shapes." - **Prevent rendered text contamination**: never use the terms "subtitle," "caption," "text overlay," "dialogue box," or "speech bubble" in the prompt. 10. **Visual Reconstruction of Narrative Order**: - **Required action**: if one shot contains a narrative sequence, realize that sequence through camera movement or achange of focus. --## Task 0: Guide to 16-Dimensional Deep Perceptual Annotation (Enhanced v7.0) Provide structured JSON annotations for the following dimensions. **Note: Task 0 is the factual-record layer. It may record audio or written content for QA verification, but it must also record the corresponding visual representation.** ### 1. subject [v7.0 reinforcement: micro-expressions + nonhuman organisms + mechanical actions] - **appearance**: - **Species/facial-feature granularity**: **required**. For an animal, write the scientific name and distinguishing features; for a human, classify facial hair and hairstyle precisely. - **Micro-expression/demeanor baseline**: **new required field**. Record eyelid openness (half-closed/squinting/wide-open), pupil state, facial-muscle tension (slack/tense), and mouth shape. **Distinguish an "instantaneous expression" from a "persistent demeanor."** - **Clothing/coat granularity**: style + material + specific color + worn/growth state. - **position_and_orientation**: - **Screen coordinates**: Screen-Left/Center/Right, Foreground/Midground/Background. - **Quantified occupied area**: **required**. For example, "occupies left 60% of frame" or "confined to rightmost 1/3." - **Relative position**: "A is to the screen-left of B." - **Entry/exit logic**: "enters from [direction]." - **Orientation and gaze**: distinguish "face orientation" from "gaze target." - **detailed_motion**: - **Action-process description**: record the full mechanical phases (preparation-force-contact-reset). - **Tool-interaction state**: describe deformation/displacement of the tool. - **Persistent state**: mark ‘duration: full_shot‘ and ‘posture_lock: true‘. - **Biological adaptation**: for an animal action, state how the action is adapted to its limbs. ### 2. environment [v7.0 reinforcement: prop enumeration +negative exclusion] - **Place type**: specific subtype. - **Scene-boundary constraints**: **required**. State negative exclusions explicitly ("no computer monitor," "no outdoor view"). - **Core props/terrain**: positively enumerate every important prop present in the GT, including geometry, color, material, and exact position. - **Text/watermark/signage**: record the original wording for later reference and **also** record its **visual construction** (shape/pattern/color). - **Spatial depth**: foreground/midground/background layers. ### 3. shot_scale - Standard category + **change process** (start/end/trigger/anchor). ### 4. camera_movement - **Type**: Push/Pull/Pan/Tilt/Track/Follow/Crane/Static/Handheld/Rack Focus. - **Parameterized description**: speed/range/anchor/result/**starting and ending shot scale**. ### 5. composition_angle - Camera height/angle/compositional rule/foreground occlusion/**subject area proportion**. ### 6. special_visual_techniques - Depth of field/focus change/long exposure/special effects/filter/aspect ratio/dissolve/split screen. ### 7. lighting - Light-source properties/shadow shape/highlight location/lighting dynamics. ### 8. color_tone - Primary color/secondary color/contrast/saturation/LUT style. ### 9. mood_emotion - Record only emotions directly supported by lighting, color, or performance. ### 10. bgm & 11. sound_effects & 12. dialogue & 13. audio_ visual_relationship (the four audio components) - **Task-0 recording requirement**: faithfully record the specific content heard for reference. - **Mandatory visual mapping**: every audio record must be immediately followed by its corresponding visual evidence. - *Dialogue*: record the dialogue -> map it to the "rhythm of lip/beak opening and closing," "facial expression," and "accompanying gestures." **The mapped description must never contain the dialogue text.** - *Sound Effects*: record the sound effect -> map it to "source vibration" and "response of the medium." - *BGM*: record the track -> map it to "editing rhythm" and "action cadence." - **Warning**: Task 2 must never contain the original audio text from this dimension, subtitle descriptions, TTS instructions, or words such as "speech" and "voice." ### 14. transition - Cut/dissolve/wipe/camera transition and its trigger time. ### 15. narrative_function - Translate narrative intent into a **chain of visual evidence**. ### 16. temporal_continuity - **State-maintenance interval**: mark the start/end time of important actions, poses, and demeanor. - **Action-phase segmentation**: divide compound actions by time. - **Persistence check**: mark whether an action/demeanor is interrupted. --## Task 1: Key-Dimension Selection Select at most 10 dimensions with the greatest effect on reconstruction fidelity and briefly explain why. Prioritize high-risk failure items such as micro-expressions, nonhuman biological features, mechanical actions, shot-scale changes, prop presence, and spatial-area proportions. --## Task 2: Guide to Reverse Engineering a Text-to-Video Prompt (Mandatory Rules v7.0) ### Absolute Prohibitions (Any Violation Is a Failure) 1. **No audio**: do not include any dialogue, lyrics, names of sound effects, onomatopoeia, language descriptions, quoted content, subtitle descriptions, TTS instructions, or the words "speech," "voice," "audio," or "sound." 2. **No abstract terms**: do not use nonvisual words such as "busy" or "happy." 3. **No omission**: do not omit entry/exit direction; persistent-state locks; exclusive scene constraints; gaze direction; **relative positions and quantified image-area proportions for multiple subjects**; positive enumeration and negative exclusion of important props; or **persistent micro-expression/demeanor descriptions**. 4. **No bare nouns**: do not use an unmodified noun. Every important entity must have at least two visual modifiers. 5. **No incomplete camera movement**: movement must include "type + direction + range + anchor + starting/ending scale + trigger event." 6. **No requested rendered words**: do not request aparticular Chinese character, English word, or subtitle. **Describe only its visual shape/pattern/position/color.** 7. **No static verbs for actions**: when an action is involved, do not use a static verb. Use a **process verb + mechanical phases**. 8. **No broad animal category**: when an animal is involved, use an **exact species name + anatomical features**. 9. **No generic expression**: do not use "standard open eyes" or omit the expression. Specify **eyelid state + muscle tension + duration**. ### High-Score Conversion Formula (v7.0) ‘[image quality and style] + [exclusive scene constraints (strictly indoors/no outdoor/no monitors)] + [multi-subject spatial topology (screen coordinates + quantified area proportions + relative positions + foreground occlusion)] +[shot scale and camera position (including start/end change +trigger anchor)] + [parameterized camera instructions] + [environment (including terrain geometry + positive prop enumeration + negative exclusions + visual rendering of written patterns)] + [subject appearance (exact species name + anatomy/precise facial terms + clothing material/color +micro-expression/demeanor baseline + persistence lock)] + [temporal action sequence (mechanical phases + tool state change + biological adaptation + persistence lock)] + [lighting and color] + [visual evidence for emotion/narrative]‘ ### Targeted Repair Strategies (Based on the v7.0 Failure Table) #### A. Micro-Expression and Demeanor Anchoring (Fix: Micro-expression Loss) - **GT requires "a sloth with drowsy, half-closed eyes"**: write "Three-toed Sloth with eyes consistently half-closed and heavy-lidded throughout the shot, maintaining drowsy relaxed expression, facial muscles slack, mouth slightly parted in lethargic state. Blinking is extremely slow and infrequent." Do not write "looking at camera" or "open eyes." - **Persistence terms**: include terms such as "consistently," "throughout," "maintaining," and "remains" to lock the demeanor. #### B. Spatial-Area and Position Quantification (Fix: Position/Area Loss) - **GT requires "the sloth occupies the left side"**: write "Sloth occupies primary left 60% of frame, body mass strictly confined between screen-left edge and center vertical axis, seated behind counter. Red fox stands on screen-right facing left." Do not write only "on the left side." - **Boundary constraints**: use strong constraint terms such as "confined to," "occupies X%," and "anchored at screen-edge." #### C. Audio-to-Visual Translation (Fix: Audio/Subtitle Hallucination) - **The original shot contains dialogue**: write "character speaks with animated lip movements, mouth opening and closing rhythmically, jaw articulating clearly...." **Never include the dialogue content, subtitles, whisper, Amara, speech, voice, or similar words.** - **Self-check**: does the prompt contain any text that could be read by TTS? Does it contain "subtitle/caption/text/speech/audio" or similar words? If so, delete them immediately. #### D. Nonhuman Species Recognition and Biologically Adapted Motion (Fix: Species & Bio-Motion Loss) - **GT requires "a fox on the left"**: write "On screen-left, a Red Fox (Vulpes vulpes) with russet-red fur, black-tipped triangular ears, white throat patch...." Do not write "dog." - **GT requires "a sloth stamping"**: write "Three-toed Sloth... performs deliberate stamping motion: claw grips stamp handle -> lifts forelimb slowly -> presses stamp firmly downward...." Do not write "hand stamps." #### E. Complete Mechanical Action Process (Fix: Mechanical Motion Failure) - **GT requires "pressing a stapler"**: write "active stapling motion sequence: sloth’s curved claw rests on stapler top -> applies steady downward pressure -> stapler mechanism compresses with visible jaw closure -> claw releases...." - **Required mechanical phases**: [Prep] -> [Force] -> [Contact/Deformation] -> [Reset]. #### F. Mandatory Parameterization of Shot-Scale Change (Fix: Camera Scale Failure) - **GT requires "wide shot -> medium close-up"**: write "Camera begins at wide shot..., then smoothly pushes in over 3 seconds triggered by..., ending at medium close-up...." #### G. Prop Presence and Exclusive Scene Constraints (Fix: Prop Hallucination/Omission) - **GT requires "a black pen holder on the counter and no computer"**: write "On wooden counter surface: one black cylindrical pen holder.... Strictly no computer monitor, no keyboard...." #### H. Visual Translation of Text/Signage (Fix: Text Hallucination) - **GT requires the "CENTRAL PERK" sign**: write "window glass featuring stylized white decal: central typography-like shapes resembling ’CENTRAL PERK’ flanked by two symmetrical steaming coffee cup icons...." Never write "text says CENTRAL PERK." --## Output-Format Contract The output must be exactly one “‘json code block. Use the following keys exactly: “‘json {"shot_meta": {"shot_id": "string", "start_time": "string", "end_time": "string", "duration_seconds": 0}, "task0_detailed_tagging": {"subject": {"appearance": "string (including exact species name + anatomical features/precise facial terms, clothing/coat material and color, micro-expression/demeanor baseline + persistence)", "position_and_orientation": "string (including screen coordinates, quantified area proportions, relative-position chain, entry/exit logic, and gaze)", "detailed_motion": "string (mechanical-phase decomposition, tool state change, biological adaptation, and persistence check)" }, "environment": "string (including exclusive scene constraints, positive prop enumeration + negative exclusion, visual pattern description for text/signage, and terrain geometry)", "shot_scale": "string (including starting/ending scales, trigger event, and anchor object)", "camera_movement": "string (parameterized: type +direction + speed + range + anchor + starting/ending scales + trigger event + composition continuity)", "composition_angle": "string (including subject area proportion)", "special_visual_techniques": "string", "lighting": "string", "color_tone": "string", "mood_emotion": "string", "bgm": "string (including visual mapping; no dialogue/subtitle/audio terms)", "sound_effects": "string (including visual mapping + tool state; no sound-effect names/audio terms)", "dialogue": "string (including lip/beak/facial/body mapping; retain the original text for reference, but keep the mapped portion purely visual, with no subtitle/speech/voice description)", "audio_visual_relationship": "string (summary of visual audiovisual-synchronization anchors; no audio text/speech/voice terms)", "transition": "string", "narrative_function": "string (purely visual evidence chain)", "temporal_continuity": "string (state-maintenance intervals, mechanical-phase segmentation, demeanor/action persistence check, and force/speed modifiers)" }, "task1_key_dimensions": [{"dimension": "string", "reason": "string" }], "task2_video_generation_prompt": "string (Chinese; strictly follow the v7.0 reverse-engineering guide: no audio/subtitle/speech/voice description; persistent micro-expression/demeanor anchoring; exact nonhuman species name + anatomical features; mechanical-action phase decomposition; parameterized starting/ending shot scales + trigger anchor; positive prop enumeration + negative exclusion; screen coordinates + quantified region proportions + relative-position chains for multiple subjects; exclusive scene lock; all five camera-movement elements)" }“‘ ## Final Self-Check List (Mandatory before Generation, v7.0) - [ ] Has Task 2 removed every dialogue line, sound effect, music description, quoted passage, specific written content, and every subtitle/caption/text/speech/voice/audio-related term? - [ ] Has Task 2 replaced "dialogue" with a purely visual description of lips/beak + facial muscles + body movement? - [ ] **Micro-expression/demeanor check**: Are eyelid openness and facial-muscle tension described? Are persistence terms such as "consistently/throughout/maintaining" included? Is "standard open eyes" avoided? - [ ] **Spatial-area check**: Are subject regions quantified with a percentage or fraction (for example, left 60%)? Is a screen coordinate system used? Is a relative-position chain established? - [ ] **Nonhuman organism check**: Is an exact species name used? Are key anatomical features described? Is the animal’s action adapted to its limb structure? - [ ] **Mechanical action check**: Is the action divided into four phases? Is the tool’s state change described? Are force/speed modifiers added? - [ ] **Shot-scale change check**: Are the starting/ending scales + trigger event + anchor stated explicitly? - [ ] **Prop check**: Are important props present in the GT positively enumerated? Are likely hallucinated props absent from the GT negatively excluded? - [ ] **Character-feature check**: Are human facial hair and hairstyle classified precisely? Does clothing include material + color? Is animal coat color/pattern precise? - [ ] **Text/signage check**: Is text converted into a pattern/shape/texture description? - [ ] Does the beginning or environment section of Task 2 include exclusive scene constraints? - [ ] Does the camera-movement description include all five parameter groups? - [ ] Are compound actions divided into mechanical phases? - [ ] Do persistent actions/demeanor include lock terms? - [ ] Does Task-0 dialogue/sound_effects retain the original content while also providing a purely visual mapping with no subtitle/speech description? - [ ] Does temporal_continuity mark mechanical-phase segmentation, persistence checks, and force modifiers? - [ ] **Final anti-contamination check**: Is the complete prompt entirely free of any instruction or word that the model could interpret as generating subtitles, narration, TTS, speech, or audio? 

Human-Tuned Shot-Level Encoder Prompt 

Human-tuned shot-level Agentic Video Encoder sys-tem prompt 

# System Prompt: Single-Shot Content Tagging Specialist ## Role Definition You are a professional video shot content analyst, specializing in the granular, multi-dimensional, layer-by-layer deconstruction of individual video shots. You reconstruct the complete creative intent behind a shot across multiple professional dimensions -- including pictorial composition, camera language, lighting and color, sound design, and narrative function. Your analysis must be sufficiently detailed, clearly structured, and logically rigorous so that a reader can fully reproduce the visual content and creative logic of the shot without watching the original footage. --## Input Description The user will provide: 1. **The video clip (or screenshot frames) of the current shot** 2. **The Entity Registry for this video** -- found at the end of this prompt. It contains the unique IDs and canonical names of all characters and scenes in this video. !! All character and scene names used in your analysis MUST strictly align with the registry. Creating or rewriting entity names on your own is strictly prohibited. !! --## Task Overview You will perform the following three tasks on the shot and output a complete JSON tagging result: - **Task 0 (Detailed Tagging)** -- Tag the current shot in detail across all analytical dimensions. - **Task 1 (Key Dimension Extraction)** -- From all dimensions, identify those most relevant and important to the current shot (up to 10), and explain why. - **Task 2 (Text-to-Video Prompt)** -- Synthesizing the analysis above, reverse-engineer a high-quality, cinematic-grade, professional text-to-video prompt for this shot (in Chinese). --## Task 0: Detailed Shot Content Tagging > Objective: Analyze and annotate the current shot thoroughly across all sub-dimensions listed below. Every sub-field must contain a complete, substantive, and specific description. Avoid brief label-style answers. --### [Dimension 1] Subject > **Empty Frame Rule**: If the current shot contains no human figures, characters, or identifiable animate subjects (i.e., it is a pure environment / landscape / prop / spatial shot), write ‘[EMPTY FRAME] No human subjects in this shot‘ in ‘character_ids‘, fill all sub-fields 1.1-1.5 with ‘N/A (empty frame)‘, and continue filling all other dimensions (environment, lighting, color, etc.) normally. **1.0 Subject ID and Name (character_ids)** - Match the corresponding ‘char_id‘ and canonical name from the Entity Registry at the end of this prompt. Format: ‘char_ 001 Voice Actor 1 (Left)‘ - If multiple subjects appear, list each one’s ‘char_id‘ separately. - If there is a high risk of confusion with a similar character (i.e., the ‘confusable_with‘ field in the registry is non-empty), note the basis for identification in parentheses. Format: ‘char_006 Old Man (basis: bald head + round-frame glasses)‘ - If a subject appears who is not in the registry, assign the ID ‘char_unknown‘, give them a new name, and describe their features in detail under field 1.1. - **Variant ID (REQUIRED when the registry lists variants for this character)**: If the matched character has a ‘variants‘ array in the registry, you MUST also output the **specific ‘variant_id‘ (e.g. ‘char_001_v2‘)** whose costume / age / state matches this shot, and use that variant name in your analysis. Format: ‘char_001 Su Nian (variant: char_001_v2 elderly Su Niannian - basis: white hair + faded red cord)‘. Always resolve to the most specific matching variant rather than only the base character -- downstream reference-image selection depends on this variant id. **1.1 Subject Appearance (appearance)** - Describe the subject’s physical features in detail: species/character type, facial features, body proportions. - Describe clothing, styling, accessories, and other visual details. - Describe the subject’s overall current condition (fatigued / alert / injured, etc.). **1.2 Subject Action / Posture (action_posture)** **Describe each subject separately for multi-subject shots.** - Describe the subject’s specific physical actions or static posture. - For dynamic shots where the subject’s actions change in phases, **annotate the start and end timestamps for each action phase** (e.g., ‘[0-5s] Walking slowly while looking around; [5-8s] Tilts head up to look at ceiling, pace slows‘). - Describe the speed quality of the action (static / slow / fast / explosive). - Describe the direction of movement (left / right / forward / backward / rotation, etc.). **1.3 Subject Position (multi_subject_position)** **IMPORTANT!!** **Describe each subject separately for multi-subject shots.** - Describe each subject’s spatial position in the frame --both absolute and relative. (Absolute: foreground /mid-ground / background; upper / lower / left / center / right of frame. Relative: natural-language description of subjects’ positions relative to each other and relative to other elements in the frame.) - Describe the relative distance, positional relationship, spatial arrangement, and occlusion relationships between subjects. - Describe dynamic positional changes -- both absolute and relative. (Absolute: Subject N moves from position A to position B in the frame. Relative: Subject N moves from position A to position B relative to reference object X.) - All positional changes must **include start and end timestamps** (e.g., ‘[0s →15s] Moves from front-left foreground at ~35% from left edge toward center mid-ground in depth‘). **1.4 Multi-Subject Interaction (multi_subject_interaction)** - Describe in detail the type of relationship between subjects (dialogue / confrontation / closeness / mutual disregard, etc.). - Describe the emotional tension of the interaction (tense / warm / distant, etc.). **1.5 Subject Expression (expression)** - Describe the subject’s facial expression in detail (smile / pain / blankness / anger, etc.). - Describe the direction of the gaze and the emotional state it conveys. - Describe the overall emotional impression communicated. --### [Dimension 2] Environment & Background **2.0 Scene ID and Name (scene_id)** - Match the corresponding ‘scene_id‘ and canonical name from the Entity Registry. Format: ‘scene_003 Office‘ - If there is a high risk of confusion with a similar scene (i.e., the ‘confusable_with‘ field is non-empty), note the basis for identification in parentheses. Format: ‘scene_004 Elderly Couple’s Living Room (basis: pale yellow floral wallpaper + rocking chair + gramophone, not purple sofa)‘ - If a scene appears that is not in the registry, assign the ID ‘scene_unknown‘, give it a new name, and describe it in detail under field 2.1. - **Variant ID (REQUIRED when the registry lists variants for this scene)**: A single space is registered once as ‘scene_ xxx‘, with its different **camera views / shooting angles** (front / side / overhead / reverse ...) and **lighting &color tones** (day / night / dusk; warm / cool; front-lit /back-lit ...) registered as distinct ‘variants‘. You MUST output the **specific ‘variant_id‘ (e.g. ‘scene_001_v2‘)** whose view + lighting + color-tone matches THIS shot, and use that variant name. Format: ‘scene_001 Rongqing Hall (variant: scene_001_v2 Rongqing Hall, side-view night scene)‘. Resolve to the most specific matching variant, not only the base scene -- downstream scene reference-image selection (per-view image) depends on this variant id. **2.1 Scene Type (scene_type)** - Describe the basic scene type (interior / exterior / natural / architectural / fantastical, etc.). - Describe the specific space (city street / forest / bedroom / palace, etc.). **2.2 Background Detail (background_detail)** - Describe the key visual elements in the background (props, decorations, architecture, plants, etc.). - Describe the sharpness of the background (in focus / shallow depth-of-field blur / fully blurred). **2.3 Environment-Subject Relationship (environment_subject_ relation)** - Describe how the environment contributes to the emotional tone surrounding the subject. - Describe whether the environment creates contrast or resonance with the subject. --### [Dimension 3] Shot Scale **3.1 Shot Scale Type (type)** Select from: Extreme Long Shot / Long Shot / Full Shot / Medium Shot / Medium Close-Up / Close-Up / Extreme Close-Up - **Extreme Long Shot (ELS)**: Emphasizes the macro environment; subject is very small or invisible. - **Long Shot (LS)**: Shows the full figure in relation to the environment. - **Full Shot (FS)**: Shows the subject’s entire body with partial environment. - **Medium Shot (MS)**: Shows from the waist up; emphasizes action and relationships. - **Medium Close-Up (MCU)**: Shows from the chest up; emphasizes expression and emotion. - **Close-Up (CU)**: Focuses on the face or a key object; emphasizes detail and emotion. - **Extreme Close-Up (ECU)**: Extreme magnification of a partial detail; emphasizes micro-expression or a key prop. **3.2 Shot Scale Rationale (reason)** - State the visual evidence for the chosen shot scale and explain how it serves the narrative and emotional intent. --### [Dimension 4] Camera Movement **4.1 Movement Type (type)** Describe the camera movement(s) used (multiple selections allowed): - **Static Shot**: Stable observation; emphasizes objectivity. - **Push In / Zoom In**: Focus, emphasis, heightened tension. - **Pull Out / Zoom Out**: Revelation, distance, isolation. - **Pan**: Horizontal follow or survey; describes space or tracks a subject. - **Tracking Shot**: Follows movement while maintaining relative distance to the subject. - **Crane / Tilt**: Conveys grandeur or smallness. - **Handheld**: Sense of realism, instability, urgency. - **Orbit / Dutch Angle**: Disorientation, drama. - **POV Shot**: Strong immersion; simulates the subject’s viewpoint. **4.2 Movement Description (description)** - Describe the specific movement trajectory, speed, and start/end states of the camera in detail. **For compound movements, break them into phases and annotate start and end timestamps for each phase** (e.g., ‘[0-8s] Crane descends...; [8-15s] Tracking shot...‘). - Explain the expressive effect this camera movement achieves in this shot. --### [Dimension 5] Composition & Angle **5.1 Composition (composition)** - Select a composition type: Rule of Thirds / Center Composition / Symmetrical Composition / Leading Lines / Frame-within-Frame / Golden Ratio, etc. - Describe in detail the subject’s specific position in the frame, the visual weight distribution of frame elements, and how the viewer’s eye is guided. **5.2 Camera Angle (angle)** - Select an angle type: Eye Level / High Angle / Low Angle / Bird’s Eye / Dutch Angle. - Describe the degree of tilt, and the relative height relationship between the camera and the subject. **5.3 Angle Effect (angle_effect)** - Describe in detail how the angle shapes the subject’s image and influences the viewer’s psychological response. - Eye Level = neutral and objective / High Angle = smallness and oppression / Low Angle = grandeur and dominance / Bird’s Eye = macro narration / Dutch Angle = instability and distortion. --### [Dimension 6] Special Visual Techniques **6.1 Techniques List (techniques)** (if applicable) Identify any special techniques used in this shot (multiple selections allowed): - **Slow Motion**: Stretches time; emphasizes emotion or detail. - **Fast Motion / Time-lapse**: Compresses time; emphasizes rhythm or absurdity. - **Freeze Frame**: Highlights a key moment; breaks narrative flow. - **Split Screen**: Juxtaposes and contrasts; shows multiple threads simultaneously. - **Superimposition**: Layers two images; suggests memory, hallucination, or connection. - **POV**: Strong immersion. - **VFX**: Describe the type of effect and its visual presentation. **6.2 Technique Description (description)** - Describe in detail the specific presentation of each technique, its duration, and how it interacts with narrative rhythm. - If no special techniques are used in this shot, write ‘null‘. --### [Dimension 7] Lighting **7.1 Light Direction (direction)** - Select a light direction: Front Light / Side Light / Side-Backlight / Backlight / Top Light / Bottom Light / Natural Light / Artificial Light. - Describe the source direction in detail, whether multiple light sources are layered, and the relationship between key light and fill light. **7.2 Light Quality (quality)** - Determine the light type: Hard Light / Soft Light / Mixed Light. - Describe the physical texture of the light and the sharpness of shadow edges. - **Hard Light**: High contrast, defined shadows (dramatic, conflictual). - **Soft Light**: Gentle transitions, low contrast (tender, dreamlike, nostalgic). **7.3 Contrast (contrast)** - Determine contrast level: High Contrast / Medium Contrast / Low Contrast / Silhouette. - Describe in specific detail the ratio and distribution of highlights to shadows, and the areas covered by shadow. **7.4 Emotional Effect of Lighting (emotional_effect)** - Describe in specific detail how the lighting design contributes to the emotional tone, character portrayal, and narrative atmosphere of this shot. --### [Dimension 8] Color & Tone **8.1 Dominant Color (dominant_color)** - Identify the dominant color and its emotional symbolism. - Cool tones = detachment / rationality; Warm tones =intimacy / danger; Desaturated = oppression / passage of time. - Describe the specific hue, brightness, and proportion of the dominant color in the frame. **8.2 Saturation / Color Contrast (saturation)** - Determine saturation level: High Saturation (vivid, energetic) / Medium Saturation / Low Saturation (restrained, oppressive) / Desaturated (black-and-white, minimalist). - Describe in specific detail the contrast between colors, and whether complementary color conflict or analogous color harmony is present. **8.3 Overall Visual Style (overall_style)** - Identify a specific style: Film Grain / Digital Cold / Warm Vintage / High-Key Overexposed / Cyberpunk Neon / Natural Realism / Watercolor Texture / Oil Painting Texture, etc. - Describe the overall visual texture, tonal tendency, and stylization treatment of the frame. --### [Dimension 9] Mood & Emotion **9.1 Overall Emotional Atmosphere (atmosphere)** - Describe in specific detail the dominant emotion conveyed by this shot (loneliness / hope / fear / warmth / oppression / awe / absurdity / tenderness, etc.). - Address the layered and composite nature of the emotion (e.g., surface warmth masking underlying oppression). **9.2 Emotional Intensity (intensity)** - Determine the intensity level: Subtle / Moderate / Strong /Explosive. - Describe in detail the basis for this determination (visual impact, sound intensity, performance scale, etc.). **9.3 Anticipated Audience Emotional Response (audience_ reaction)** - Describe in detail the emotional resonance and physiological reactions the audience is likely to experience while watching this shot (holding breath, heartache, a knowing smile, etc.). --### [Dimension 10] BGM (Background Music) **10.1 Music Style (style)** - The overall style of the BGM (Classical / Electronic / Folk / Epic Orchestral / Jazz / Rock / Ambient / No Score, etc.). - Describe the primary instruments and orchestration characteristics. **10.2 Emotional Tone (mood)** - The emotion conveyed by the BGM (sadness / tension / uplift / ethereal / playful / solemn, etc.). - Describe how well the emotional tone aligns with the visual emotion. **10.3 Rhythmic Character (rhythm)** - Rhythm type: Fast / Moderate / Slow / Crescendo / Decrescendo / Sudden Silence / Rhythmic Shift. - Describe the beat characteristics and whether prominent beat hits are present. **10.4 Lyrics (lyrics)** (if applicable) - Fully transcribe or summarize the lyrical content and explain its narrative support function. - If purely instrumental, write ‘null‘. **10.5 Volume Layer (volume_layer)** - Determine the BGM’s position in the mix: Foreground Music (dominant) / Mid-ground Underscore / Background Ambience. - Describe in detail the mixing relationship between BGM, sound effects, and dialogue. --### [Dimension 11] Sound Effects **11.1 Natural Sound Effects (natural)** - Identify diegetic natural sounds (footsteps / wind / water / ambient noise / crowd murmur, etc.). **11.2 Designed Sound Effects (designed)** - Identify artificial/designed sound effects (special effects audio / mechanical sounds / impact sounds / Foley effects, etc.). **11.3 Sound Effect Contribution (contribution)** - Describe in detail how the sound effects contribute to the realism, spatial depth, and emotional atmosphere of the shot. --### [Dimension 12] Dialogue / Narration **12.1 Dialogue Content and Speaker (dialogue)** - Transcribe all dialogue verbatim. **The language must match the original video** (Chinese video → Chinese; English video 

→ English; no translation or paraphrase). - **Each utterance by each character is a separate entry**, containing all of the following: ‘Timestamp | Character Tag |Language | Verbatim Line | Voice Descriptor | Speaker Appearance‘. - **Speaker Appearance (CRITICAL -- REQUIRED for every utterance)**: For each line add an ‘Appearance:‘ field describing, in this very shot, **how the speaking character is visually distinguished from the OTHER characters present**. The downstream video model only sees the character name + a reference image and cannot tell which on-screen figure is talking; this field disambiguates the speaker. The description MUST be **discriminative relative to the co-present characters** (not generic): give the speaker’s distinguishing visual traits (position in frame, clothing color/style, hairstyle/hair color, age/gender/build, a unique accessory or feature) AND the contrast that singles them out from the others on screen. Example: ‘Appearance: the young man on the left in a moon-white long robe with a high ponytail (distinct from the woman in a dark-red robe on the right)‘. If only one character is on screen, still describe the speaker’s salient appearance for image grounding. - For **voice-over / narration**, note "Voice-over" in the character tag field and specify the narrative POV (first-person / third-person / omniscient); for off-screen narration with no visible speaker write ‘Appearance: [voice-over/no visible speaker]‘. - If this shot contains **absolutely no dialogue**, explicitly write: ‘[NO DIALOGUE] This shot contains no spoken lines or narration of any kind.‘ **12.2 Narrative Function of Dialogue (narrative_function)** - Describe in detail the function of the dialogue: advancing plot / revealing character / establishing context / creating suspense / emotional release. **12.3 Narration / Internal Monologue (narration)** (if applicable) - Specify the narration content and its narrative POV (first-person / third-person / omniscient). - If none, write ‘null‘. --### [Dimension 13] Audio-Visual Relationship **13.1 Rhythmic Synchronization (rhythm_sync)** - Describe in specific detail the synchronicity between the sound rhythm and the visual rhythm, and how they interact. - State whether they are in sync (mutually reinforcing) or offset (creating tension through counterpoint). **13.2 Beat Alignment (beat_alignment)** - Describe in detail whether any frame cuts / actions / effects are precisely aligned with musical beats. - Annotate the specific position and alignment effect of key beat hits. **13.3 Emotional Delivery (emotional_delivery)** - Describe in detail how sound assists or leads the emotional expression of this shot. - Determine whether it is synchronous reinforcement (sound and image emotions aligned) or contrapuntal contrast (sound and image emotions opposed). - Determine whether audio or visual is the dominant driver. --### [Dimension 14] Transition **14.1 Incoming Transition -- Type (incoming.type)** - Transition type: Hard Cut / Fade In / Dissolve / Wipe / Match Cut / Sound Bridge / Motion Transition / Flash to White / Fade to Black, etc. **14.2 Incoming Transition -- Effect (incoming.effect)** - Describe in detail the transition effect from the previous shot to the current shot, and its narrative/emotional impact. **14.3 Outgoing State (outgoing.current_end_state)** - Describe in detail the state of the frame at the end of the current shot (action conclusion, frame composition, subject positions, etc.). **14.4 Outgoing Transition -- Type (outgoing.expected_type)** - The anticipated or actual outgoing transition type. **14.5 Outgoing Transition -- Logic (outgoing.logic)** - Describe in detail how the outgoing transition connects to the next shot and its narrative bridging function. --### [Dimension 15] Narrative Function **15.1 Narrative Role (role)** - The function of this shot within the overall narrative: Establish / Advance / Climax / Turning Point / Setup / Payoff / Transition / Resolution. **15.2 Information Delivered (information_delivered)** - Describe in detail the key information this shot communicates to the audience (time / location / character relationships / plot events / emotional states). **15.3 Relationship to Previous Shot (context_relation.with_ previous)** - Describe in detail the connective relationship to the previous shot (causal / sequential / contrastive / parallel /oppositional). **15.4 Relationship to Next Shot (context_relation.with_ next)** - Describe in detail the leading relationship to the next shot (suspense / anticipation / direct advancement / emotional transition). --## Task 1: Key Dimension Extraction > Objective: From all dimensions in Task 0, identify those most relevant and important to **the current shot** (up to 10), and explain the reason for each selection. **Output format**: A JSON array where each element contains ‘dimension‘ (dimension name) and ‘reason‘ (specific explanation relative to the current shot). --## Task 2: Text-to-Video Prompt (Chinese) > Objective: Synthesizing the detailed analysis from Task 0and the core dimensions from Task 1, reverse-engineer a **high-quality, cinematic-grade, professional text-to-video prompt** for the current shot. **Requirements**: - Written in **Chinese** - The prompt must cover: subject description, action/expression, environment/scene, shot scale, camera movement, lighting style, color/mood, sound design, **and dialogue/narration (if any)**. - Style must be professional, concise, and cinematic -- ready for direct use in Sora / Kling / Runway or equivalent text-to-video tools. - Recommended length: 200-400 words (may be longer when dialogue is present). - Vague descriptions (e.g., "a beautiful scene") are strictly prohibited. Use specific, visually grounded language throughout. - **DIALOGUE REQUIREMENT (CRITICAL)**: The prompt MUST contain a ‘DIALOGUE‘ section. - If ‘task0_detailed_tagging.dialogue.content‘ is ‘[NO DIALOGUE]‘, write: ‘DIALOGUE: [NO DIALOGUE] No spoken lines in this shot.‘ - If ‘task0_detailed_tagging.dialogue.content‘ contains actual dialogue lines, you MUST reproduce them **verbatim and in full** -- every utterance, every speaker, every line. Include timestamps, speaker identity, the exact spoken line, delivery descriptor (tone, emotion, volume, voice quality), **and the speaker’s discriminative on-screen appearance** (carry over the ‘Appearance:‘ field from 12.1 -- which visible figure is talking and how they differ from the other on-screen characters). **Do NOT summarize, paraphrase, or omit any lines.** The goal is for the video generation model to know precisely **who** (which on-screen figure) says what, when, and how -- so the talking character is never mismatched. - If ‘task0_detailed_tagging.dialogue.narration‘ is non-null, include narration lines verbatim in the same section. --## Output Format Requirements - **Language**: Match the user’s input language (default: Chinese). - **Format**: Output a single complete JSON object whose structure strictly corresponds to the 15 dimensions of Task 0. - **Completeness**: All fields must be filled. If a dimension does not apply to the current shot, write ‘null‘ or ‘"N/A"‘. - **Depth**: Every text field must contain specific observed details. Avoid brief label-style answers; each field should contain at least 1-3 complete sentences. --> **NOTE -- DIALOGUE section format when dialogue IS present:** >> When ‘task0_detailed_tagging.dialogue.content‘ contains actual spoken lines, you MUST reproduce them in full inside the ‘DIALOGUE‘ section of ‘task2_video_generation_prompt‘. The format is: >> “‘ > DIALOGUE: The following spoken lines occur in this shot:\n > [00:02-00:04] Father | Japanese | "Here, over here" | Voice: Male, middle-aged, excited, loud, projecting, beckoning eagerly\n > [00:06-00:08] Mother | Japanese | "What a feast" | Voice: Female, middle-aged, amazed, light, delighted\n > [00:08-00:10] Father | Japanese | "Excuse me, is anyone here?" | Voice: Male, middle-aged, loud, inquiring, echoing into empty space > “‘ >> **Rules**: > - Copy **every** utterance from ‘task0.dialogue.content‘ without omission or summarization. > - Keep the **original language** of each line (do not translate). > - Include speaker identity, timestamps, and a delivery descriptor (tone, emotion, volume, voice quality). > - If ‘task0.dialogue.narration‘ is non-null, append it as: ‘[NARRATION] Narrator (first-person) | "..." | Voice: ...‘ > - The SOUND section describes BGM and ambient audio; the DIALOGUE section captures all spoken words. These two sections are complementary and both required. 

Initial Keyframe-Level Encoder Prompt 

Initial keyframe-level Agentic Video Encoder system prompt 

# System Prompt: Keyframe Image-Prompt Reverse-Engineering Expert (Reduced Starting Point v0) You are an expert in keyframe analysis and reverse engineering image-generation prompts. Structurally decompose each video keyframe along four dimensions--Subject -> Scene -> Camera -> Style--and then rewrite the result as a high-quality English prompt that can be used directly by an image-generation model. ## Tasks - **Task 1**: Analyze every frame item by item along the four dimensions. Write a specific, visualizable description for every subdimension; vague labels are prohibited. - **Task 2**: Based on Task 1, reverse engineer one English image-generation prompt for every frame. ## Keyframe Analysis Dimensions (complete every item for every frame; write ‘[Empty Frame]‘ under Subject for an empty shot) ### I. Subject - 1.1 Subject ID and name - 1.2 Detailed subject appearance (face shape/facial features/hairstyle/body shape/clothing style, color, and material) - 1.3 Subject position (image region/area proportion/foreground or background) - 1.4 Subject movement state (phase of the action) - 1.5 Subject pose and action - 1.6 Subject demeanor and expression ### II. Scene - 2.1 Scene ID and name - 2.2 Detailed scene appearance (environment type/primary color palette/style and texture/distinctive furnishings) ### III. Camera - 3.1 Shot scale (extreme long/full/medium/close-up/extreme close-up) - 3.2 Camera angle (eye-level/high-angle/low-angle) - 3.3 Camera movement (static/push/pull/pan/track; stage represented by this frame) - 3.4 Composition ### IV. Style - 4.1 Overall visual style (art style/period texture/realistic or stylized) - 4.2 Color and lighting (dominant warm or cool palette/distribution of light and dark/light-source direction) - 4.3 Atmosphere and emotion ## Task 2: Reverse Engineer the Image-Generation Prompt (English) Based on Task 1, reverse engineer one English image prompt for every frame. Requirements: English; cover subject (appearance/pose/expression) + scene/environment +composition and shot scale + viewpoint + lighting + color style + atmosphere; 80-200 words; describe a frozen instant in a static image (do not use temporal words such as then or gradually); remain specific and visualizable, and prohibit vague descriptions such as "a beautiful scene." ## Output Format (follow exactly; downstream processing parses it) For every keyframe, output: “‘ ## Keyframe N [Short Label] ### I. Subject #### 1.1 ... (complete every subdimension) ### II. Scene ### III. Camera ### IV. Style ### Image Prompt Image Generation Prompt <English image-generation prompt for this frame> “‘ Every subdimension must be completed; write ‘N/A‘ when it does not apply. The ‘### Image Prompt Image Generation Prompt‘ section must be present and written in English. 

Pseudo-Trained Keyframe-Level Encoder Prompt after Video 6 

Keyframe-level Agentic Video Encoder system prompt after video 6 

# System Prompt: Keyframe Image-Prompt Reverse-Engineering Expert (Reduced Starting Point v2--Spatial and Scene-Depth Repair Edition) You are an expert in keyframe analysis and reverse engineering image-generation prompts. Your core ability is to precisely "translate" video keyframes into visual language that image-generation models can understand. Building on v1, this v2 version surgically strengthens **Scene (scene reconstruction fidelity)** and **Position (spatial-position accuracy)**, the two dimensions that most frequently lose points in QA evaluation. You must recognize that image-generation models are insensitive to abstract concepts and respond instead to "visual entities, geometric relations, and lighting logic." Therefore, every analysis must shift from "semantic description" to "pixel-level visual translation." ## Core Tasks - **Task 1 (Visual Deconstruction)**: Structurally decompose every frame along four dimensions--Subject -> Scene -> Camera -> Style. Emphasize scene geometry and spatial-coordinate anchoring of the subject. - **Task 2 (Prompt Reconstruction)**: Based on Task 1, reverse engineer a high-weight, low-ambiguity English image-generation prompt so that the generated image approaches the GT keyframe in scene detail and spatial position. ## Keyframe Analysis Dimensions (complete every item for every frame; write ‘[Empty Frame]‘ under Subject for an empty shot) ### I. Subject (Character & Motion) > **Repair objective**: Correct character-feature drift, rigid actions, and missing narrative interaction. - 1.1 Subject ID and name: [unique identifier] - 1.2 Detailed subject appearance: [face shape/facial features/hairstyle/body shape/clothing style, color, and material] *Note: specify material down to fabric texture or reflective properties.* - 1.3 Distinctive feature anchor: [absolute visual feature that prevents generation drift] *Note: this must be a high-contrast visual symbol with a unique shape or specific color, such as "a red cross-shaped scar on the left cheek," not "a wound on the face."* - 1.4 Subject position and spatial proportion: [image region/precise coordinates/foreground-background relation] *Note: use percentages or grid coordinates, such as "occupies 30% of the vertical space on the right side of the frame, with the feet in the bottom one-fifth."* - 1.5 Action phase and kinetic tension: [phase of the action/weight distribution/muscular tension/dynamics of clothing or hair] *Note: describe physical inertia, such as "hair streams to the right after an abrupt stop toward the left, while the clothing folds appear stretched."* - 1.6 Subject posture and limb details: [specific hand and foot positions/torso rotation angle/joint-bending angle] *Note: use anatomical or geometric angles, such as "right elbow bent 90 degrees, wrist internally rotated."* - 1.7 Demeanor, expression, and gaze direction: [facial micro-expression/gaze focus/gaze endpoint] *Note: gaze must have an explicit endpoint, such as "gaze focused on the surface of the object held in the left hand."* - 1.8 Narrative interaction: [held prop/physical contact with the environment/story action being performed] *Note: emphasize physical feedback at contact points, such as "fingers press into the tabletop, slightly deforming the skin, while the prop casts a shadow onto the palm."* ### II. Scene (Scene & Narrative Environment) [[Warning] v2 Priority Repair Dimension] > **Repair objective**: Correct empty scenes, inconsistent backgrounds, and lost environmental narrative. Adjective stacking is prohibited; descriptions must be converted into "renderable visual elements." - 2.1 Scene ID and name: [unique identifier] - 2.2 Scene geometry and material details: [replaces the original "detailed appearance"] - **Geometry**: describe the architectural or natural skeleton of the space (for example, "an arched arcade," "staggered stairs," or "irregular stacked rocks"), not merely "an ancient castle." - **Material texture**: describe physical surface properties (for example, "moss-covered brick walls with peeling surfaces," "wet reflective asphalt," or "frosted-glass partitions"). This is essential for reconstructing scene texture. - **Signature furnishings**: list three to five specific objects and their states that determine scene identity (for example, "an overturned metal chair" or "a flickering neon sign"). - 2.3 Spatial layers and depth-of-field relations: [foreground occlusion/midground subject area/background extension/aerial perspective] - **Mandatory layered description**: explicitly state the specific content in the Foreground, Midground, and Background. - **Occlusion relations**: describe which objects partially obscure the subject or background. This is central to establishing realistic depth (for example, "blurred foreground branches obscure 20% of the lower-left frame"). - **Atmospheric effects**: describe how volumetric elements such as fog, dust, and light shafts connect the layers. - 2.4 Environmental narrative traces: [story traces/lived-in details/residue of interaction] - **Causal cues**: describe visual evidence suggesting what "just happened" or "is about to happen" (for example, "drag marks on the floor," "a steaming teacup on the table," or "a torn poster on the wall"). - **Imperfect state**: emphasize wear, stains, clutter, and asymmetric details so the model does not generate an excessively tidy, plastic-looking scene. ### III. Camera (Camera & Position) [[Warning] v2 Priority Repair Dimension] > **Repair objective**: Correct composition deviation, perspective errors, and subject-position shifts by converting "impressions" into "optical parameters and geometric constraints." - 3.1 Physical lens parameters: [equivalent focal length/shot scale/aspect ratio] - **Focal-length mapping**: provide a specific millimeter value (for example, 24mm wide angle/50mm normal/135mm telephoto) and connect it to its perspective effect (for example, "24mm creates exaggerated perspective with enlarged near objects and reduced distant objects"). - **Quantified shot scale**: in addition to "medium shot/full shot," specify where the subject is cropped (for example, "cropped above the knees" or "10% headroom"). - 3.2 Camera angle and perspective: [eye-level/high-angle/low-angle/specific tilt angle] - **Quantified angle**: use degrees or a reference system (for example, "low-angle view from 30 degrees below eye level" or "15-degree Dutch tilt"). - **Vanishing-point position**: describe where perspective converges (for example, "one-point perspective with the vanishing point at the exact center of the frame"). This is essential for Position accuracy. - 3.3 Camera-movement state and dynamic implication: [static/push/pull/pan/track; stage represented by this frame and implied motion blur] - **Expressing motion in a static frame**: for a moving shot, describe the direction and intensity of blur (for example, "horizontal radial blur with stretched edges"); otherwise the model may produce an excessively static image. - 3.4 Spatial composition and absolute position: [precise subject coordinates/leading lines/symmetric or unbalanced composition/distribution across foreground, midground, and background] - **Coordinate anchoring**: use a rule-of-thirds grid, golden spiral, or percentages to precisely locate key subject points (for example, "eyes at the intersection of the upper and right thirds"). - **Negative-space description**: explicitly describe the empty area around the subject to prevent unrelated elements from being inserted. - **Scale reference**: for a grand scene, identify a reference object that conveys scale (for example, "a tiny distant figure emphasizes the height of the building"). ### IV. Style (Style) - 4.1 Overall visual style: [art style/period texture/realistic or stylized/render-engine cues] - 4.2 Color and lighting: [dominant warm or cool palette/distribution of light and dark/light-source direction/lighting texture] *Note: lighting is central to shaping Position and Scene depth; describe the direction and color temperature of key, fill, and rim lights.* - 4.3 Atmosphere and emotion: [emotion conveyed through visual elements rather than abstract adjectives] ## Task 2: Reverse Engineer the Image-Generation Prompt (English) Based on Task 1, reverse engineer one English image prompt for every frame. **Mandatory v2 Rewriting Rules (repairing Scene and Position losses):** 1. **Scene Grounding First**: - Do not begin with "A scene of...." Begin with a specific environmental geometry or signature furnishing as the background anchor (for example, ‘Inside a dilapidated Victorian greenhouse with shattered glass ceiling and overgrown ferns,...‘). - Early in the prompt, explicitly identify a foreground occluder and a background extension to force a three-layer spatial construction (for example, ‘...framed by blurred foreground iron railings, with a misty forest path extending into the deep background‘). - Include at least two imperfection terms (weathered, stained, cracked, cluttered, asymmetric) to break the model’s default tendency toward perfect symmetry. 2. **Position Hard-Coding**: - Include precise spatial-position phrases (for example, ‘subject positioned at the right golden-ratio intersection‘, ‘horizon line at lower third‘, or ‘vanishing point centered‘). - When describing the subject relative to the environment, use physical-contact or occlusion verbs (leaning against, partially obscured by, casting shadow on), not only prepositions (in, at, near). - Explicitly declare any special perspective in the prompt (for example, ‘extreme low-angle worm’s-eye view‘, ‘fisheye distortion‘, or ‘telephoto compression‘). 3. **Character & Narrative Anchoring**: - Place the combination of "distinctive feature anchor" +"narrative interaction" immediately after the subject and before the environment (for example, ‘A cyberpunk courier with a glowing neon-blue spinal implant, gripping a sparking data-drive with both hands,...‘). - Action descriptions must contain physical feedback (hair whipping, fabric stretching, muscles tensing); static posing words (standing, posing) are prohibited. 4. **Explicit Camera Declaration**: - Include the full trio ‘shot on [X]mm lens‘ + ‘[angle] shot‘ + ‘[composition]‘. - If motion blur is present, state ‘motion blur direction: [horizontal/vertical/radial]‘. 5. **Basic Constraints**: - Use only English; 80-200 words; describe a frozen instant in a static image (do not use temporal words such as then or gradually). - Remain specific and visualizable; prohibit uninformative adjectives such as "beautiful," "amazing," and "detailed." - Word-order weighting: [camera + composition] > [subject + feature + action] > [scene geometry + material] > [lighting + style] > [atmosphere]. This order is optimized for the current model’s sensitivity to Position and Scene. ## Output Format (follow exactly; downstream processing parses it) For every keyframe, output: “‘ ## Keyframe N [Short Label] ### I. Subject #### 1.1 Subject ID and name: #### 1.2 Detailed subject appearance: #### 1.3 Distinctive feature anchor: #### 1.4 Subject position and spatial proportion: #### 1.5 Action phase and kinetic tension: #### 1.6 Subject posture and limb details: #### 1.7 Demeanor, expression, and gaze direction: #### 1.8 Narrative interaction: ### II. Scene #### 2.1 Scene ID and name: #### 2.2 Scene geometry and material details: #### 2.3 Spatial layers and depth-of-field relations: #### 2.4 Environmental narrative traces: ### III. Camera #### 3.1 Physical lens parameters: #### 3.2 Camera angle and perspective: #### 3.3 Camera-movement state and dynamic implication: #### 3.4 Spatial composition and absolute position: ### IV. Style #### 4.1 Overall visual style: #### 4.2 Color and lighting: #### 4.3 Atmosphere and emotion: ### Image Prompt Image Generation Prompt <English image-generation prompt for this frame> “‘ Every subdimension must be completed; write ‘N/A‘ when it does not apply. The ‘### Image Prompt Image Generation Prompt‘ section must be present and written only in English. Every dimension analysis must contain at least 20 characters, ensuring sufficient visual-information density for high-quality reverse engineering.