ESG: Generating Physically Consistent Dynamic 3D Scenes from Text Descriptions
Xintong Fang1, Zhiyuan Fang2, Rengan Xie2, Xuhong Zhang1, Guoyuan An3, Zeran Liu1, Jingyan
Zhang1, Jiarui Guo4, Yuchi Huo2∗
1Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China
2State Key Laboratory of CAD&CG, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China
3Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)
4Northeastern University, China
fxt525921@gmail.com, huo.yuchi.sc@gmail.com
Figure 1: A high-quality dynamic 3D scene generated by our
framework, where a textual description is translated into a
physically consistent, executable Unreal Engine scene with
multiple interacting objects and events.
Abstract
Recent progress in image and 3D scene generation has enabled
increasingly realistic static environments, yet most meth-
ods remain confined to such static configurations. Gener-
ating dynamic scenes from natural language is fundamen-
tally challenging: it requires joint reasoning over scene struc-
ture, temporal evolution, and physical feasibility, while en-
suring reliable execution in modern physics engines. We
present a unified framework for generating physically con-
sistent dynamic 3D scenes from text, with outputs directly
executable in Unreal Engine. Central to our approach is the
Evolutive Scene Graph (ESG), which specifies entities with
physical attributes, spatial relations, and event-driven time-
lines in a machine-checkable form. Given a prompt, a large
language model constructs and validates a complete ESG;
spatial layouts are grounded via energy-minimized gradient
optimization; timeline-constrained physical parameters are
then optimized through differentiable simulation to satisfy
user-specified events; and the resulting scene is compiled
into an engine-executable class. Experiments on 10 scenes
across three complexity levels show that our method achieves
16.4/18 mean event completion, outperforming Scene Lan-
guage, the strongest engine-executable baseline (SimWorld),
and our ablation without physical optimization by a clear mar-
gin in event completion and parameter accuracy.
∗Corresponding author.
Copyright © 2027, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
1
Introduction
Recent advances in 3D generation have produced impressive
results in automatic scene synthesis, yet the majority of ex-
isting approaches remain confined to static scenes, whereas
many real-world applications—films, games, virtual reality,
and simulation—require dynamic scenes in which objects
interact and evolve under physical laws.
Dynamic scene generation introduces challenges well be-
yond static layout synthesis: a scene must jointly model
temporal structure, event-driven interactions, and object-
level physical parameters while ensuring physically feasible
motion. Deployment further demands direct executability—
explicit object instantiation, physics initialization, and event
logic compatible with real-time simulation frameworks.
Existing methods address only subsets of these require-
ments. Learning-based approaches, including autoregressive
and diffusion models, predict static layouts or geometry dis-
tributions with no temporal structure or physical dynam-
ics (Paschalidou et al. 2021; Tang et al. 2024; Zhai et al.
2023; Lin and Mu 2024). Procedural systems such as Infini-
gen (Raistrick et al. 2023) scale to photorealistic worlds but
offer no semantic or physical controllability. SimWorld (Ye
et al. 2025) and Virtual Community (Zhou et al. 2026) build
city-scale environments atop real physics engines and deploy
LLM agents for navigation, yet translate agent commands
into pre-defined motion primitives with no mechanism to
solve for the physical parameters that guarantee a specified
event—leaving completion dependent on agent policy rather
than physical optimality. PAT3D (Lin et al. 2026) integrates
differentiable simulation into text-to-3D generation but tar-
gets static equilibrium rather than temporal event satisfaction.
LLM- and script-based pipelines produce procedural or
animation descriptions from text, yet rely on heuristic pa-
rameters without validating physical realizability (Hu et al.
2024; Sun et al. 2025; Yang et al. 2025), causing dynamic
interactions to exhibit instability or inconsistency in physics
engines.
We argue that dynamic scene generation should be for-
mulated as a structured specification and physical grounding
problem: natural language is first translated into a machine-
checkable representation of entities, relations, events, and
temporal constraints, then grounded through physics-based
optimization and simulation—enabling systematic verifica-
tion, controllability, and reliable execution that purely gener-
arXiv:2609.15392v1  [cs.GR]  14 Sep 2026


ative approaches cannot guarantee.
Based on this insight, we propose a unified framework that
translates natural-language prompts into directly executable
Unreal Engine scenes. Central to our approach is the Evo-
lutive Scene Graph (ESG)—a machine-checkable dynamic
scene representation encoding physical properties, seman-
tic attributes, spatial relations, and event-driven timelines
in a standardized JSON schema. An LLM constructs and
validates the ESG through a layered process, resolving se-
mantic entities into concrete assets. Object poses are then
grounded via energy-minimized gradient optimization sat-
isfying spatial constraints, collision avoidance, and physical
placeability.
The key technical contribution is timeline-constrained
physical optimization formulated as an event-constrained fea-
sibility problem. We optimize physical parameters—initial
velocities, actuation forces, timing offsets—by minimizing
event-wise losses through differentiable forward simulation,
using an AD-default, FD-fallback gradient scheme that bal-
ances efficiency with fidelity across interaction complexities.
The grounded ESG is compiled into UE physics initialization
and event scheduling logic.
Experiments demonstrate diverse dynamic scenes with
stable physical behaviors, high event completion rates, and
low parameter errors across a wide range of interaction types.
We will publicly release our code. Our contributions are
threefold:
• We introduce ESG (Evolutive Scene Graph), a structured
representation that formally models objects, events, tem-
poral constraints, and causal dependencies for 3D dy-
namic scenes, bridging natural-language descriptions and
physically executable scene specifications.
• We formulate dynamic scene generation as an event-
Constraint feasibility problem and propose a hybrid op-
timization framework coupling LLM-driven motion tem-
plate matching with timeline-aware, differentiable param-
eter search to satisfy multi-stage event constraints.
• We present a general differentiable physics framework
combining rigid-body dynamics with event-driven loss
functions, enabling end-to-end optimization of physical
parameters and direct compilation into an executable Un-
real Engine environment.
2
Related Work
2.1
3D Scene Generation
Early 3D scene synthesis arranged retrieved assets via hand-
crafted geometric rules (Yu et al. 2011; Fisher et al. 2012);
PlanIT (Wang et al. 2019) advanced this with hierarchical
grammars and interaction graphs, yet both remain confined
to static layouts.
Deep generative models shifted the paradigm to learning
continuous scene distributions. GAN- and VAE-based meth-
ods (Wang et al. 2018; Ritchie, Wang, and an Lin 2018) en-
code layouts into latent spaces; autoregressive models such as
ATISS (Paschalidou et al. 2021) treat synthesis as sequence
modeling; diffusion models (Zhai et al. 2023; Lin and Mu
2024; Tang et al. 2024) achieve superior scene coverage; and
3D-aware generators (Li et al. 2024; DeVries et al. 2021)
synthesize renderable NeRF scenes. SceneCraft (Yang et al.
2024a) scales to complex indoor topologies via semantic
layouts and diffusion-based rendering, but outputs a NeRF
with no object instantiation, physical properties, or dynamic
control.
Broader-scale efforts enrich content but not dynamics. In-
finigen (Raistrick et al. 2023) procedurally generates photo-
realistic environments with no semantic or physical control.
City-scale platforms SimWorld (Ye et al. 2025) and Virtual
Community (Zhou et al. 2026) support LLM-driven con-
struction and agent navigation, but treat dynamics as agent
decisions rather than specifiable physical events, exposing no
mechanism to define or optimize timed object interactions.
LLMs have inspired language-driven scene planning.
GPT4Motion (Lv et al. 2024) prompts GPT-4 to write
Blender physics scripts, but parameters are unoptimized and
the output is rendered video rather than simulation-ready
data. More broadly, LLM-based planners (Hu et al. 2024; Sun
et al. 2025; Yang et al. 2025) generate executable scripts yet
validate feasibility only via bounding-box heuristics, leaving
event-level constraints unenforceable.
None of the above treats dynamic scene generation as
event-constraint satisfaction: outputs are static layouts or
rendered videos with feasibility checked only geometrically.
We close this gap by formulating scene generation as event-
constrained parameter optimization over a differentiable sim-
ulation loop, guaranteeing event realization in a standard
physics engine.
2.2
Scene Description and Generation
Scene specifications bridge user intent and geometric instan-
tiation. Dataset-driven approaches such as 3D-FRONT (Fu
et al. 2021) inspired sequence-based scene models (Wang,
Yeshwanth, and Nießner 2021), while scene graphs (Zhou,
While, and Kalogerakis 2019; Dhamo et al. 2021) cap-
ture richer inter-object relations; Graph-to-3D (Dhamo et al.
2021) decodes object attributes from semantic edges via
graph convolutions.
LLMs have become direct reasoners over scene structure
from natural language: LayoutGPT (Feng et al. 2023) and
InstructScene (Lin and Mu 2024) emit layout programs or
semantic graphs for downstream generation; Holodeck (Yang
et al. 2024b) converts spatial constraints into simulator-
compatible scenes via constraint satisfaction; and Scene Lan-
guage (Zhang et al. 2025) represents scenes as programs,
words, and embeddings for procedural 4D animation.
Existing specifications are nonetheless predominantly
kinematic: they describe static snapshots without temporal
logic (e.g., “object A hits object B”) or physical proper-
ties (mass, friction), making them unsuitable for temporally-
constrained interactions. Our evolutive scene graph addresses
this by explicitly modeling event timelines and exposing
object-level physical parameters.
2.3
Physical Parameters Prediction and
Optimization
Observation-driven methods estimate physical parameters
via differentiable simulation. Physics as Inverse Graph-


ics (Jaques, Burke, and Hospedales 2019) optimizes mass
and friction to minimize trajectory error; NeuPhysics (Qiao,
Gao, and Lin 2022) and PAC-NeRF (Li et al. 2023) em-
bed differentiable dynamics into NeRF for joint geometry-
physics identification—though all require visual supervision.
A parallel thread uses differentiable simulation for design
and control. DiffTaichi (Hu et al. 2020) and DiffPD (Du
et al. 2021) provide gradient-based substrates for rigid and
deformable dynamics; PPR (Yang et al. 2023) and DSO (Li
et al. 2025a) steer generative models toward stable config-
urations via simulation feedback. PAT3D (Lin et al. 2026)
couples vision-language models with a differentiable rigid-
body simulator to optimize poses toward static equilibrium,
but targets static stability rather than dynamic events.
WonderPlay (Li et al. 2025b) and PhysGen3D (Chen et al.
2025) condition video diffusion on physical simulation for
dynamic content generation, but optimize visual plausibility
and produce rendered videos rather than simulation-ready
parameters.
Our setting differs from all the above: parameters are
inferred from natural language without visual supervision,
optimized for dynamic event satisfaction across time, and
compiled directly into an executable physics engine. LLM
outputs serve as semantic physical priors refined through
differentiable event-loss optimization.
3
Method
Overview.
As illustrated in Figure 2, our system generates
a dynamic 3D scene in five stages, all operating on a single
evolving carrier—the Evolutive Scene Graph (ESG): (1) con-
structing a machine-checkable ESG from the prompt under
a standardized JSON schema; (2) resolving its semantic ob-
jects to simulation-ready assets; (3) grounding the spatial
specification by optimizing object poses; (4) grounding the
event timeline by optimizing control parameters through dif-
ferentiable simulation; and (5) compiling the fully specified
ESG into an engine-executable scene class.
3.1
Evolutive Scene Graph
Directly mapping natural language to executable engine
scripts is ill-posed: LLM outputs often violate the structural,
causal, and numerical constraints required for deterministic
physics simulation. We therefore introduce Evolutive Scene
Graph (ESG), a machine-checkable intermediate representa-
tion that organizes user intent into a structured spatial spec-
ification and an executable event timeline. ESG also serves
as the shared carrier of the pipeline: internal stages read the
fields it requires and write back its results, progressively en-
riching one consistent, verifiable structure until compilable.
Given a prompt q, ESG couples a spatial specification G
with an event timeline H:
G = (O, E, R; ξ),
H = (P, I; θ),
(1)
where O, E, R denote objects, typed spatial relations, and
semantic regions. Each edge e = (oi→oj, τ) ∈E encodes
a relation of type τ; regions in R provide coarse priors for
layout initialization; and poses ξ = {ξi} geometrically in-
stantiate G. P and I denote point and interval events, and θ
the control parameters realizing H. Asset identities, ξ, and θ
are initially unresolved and determined progressively by the
subsequent stages.
Layered Construction of ESG (Stage 1).
Given q, an
LLM performs physics-aware expansion to infer implicit en-
tities and interactions—e.g., introducing a staircase when an
object rolls downward. A text-to-image model then renders
a visual reference of the initial state, from which a VLM
extracts soft priors over objects, relations, and regions. Con-
ditioned on the prompt and these priors, the LLM instantiates
O, E, R, P, I under a type-constrained JSON schema, leav-
ing ξ and θ unresolved. A rule-based verifier checks schema
validity, entity references, relation compatibility, and event
ordering; violations are returned as structured feedback for
iterative revision until all constraints hold.
Semantic Asset Resolution (Stage 2).
Each object oi ∈O
is resolved to a simulation-ready asset: candidates are re-
trieved from an asset library via a CLIP-based (Radford et al.
2021) embedding index (Beaumont 2022), then reranked
by semantic similarity, category compatibility, and physical
suitability. The selected asset is written back to ESG with
mesh path, canonical scale, collision proxy, and physics
metadata. If retrieval confidence falls below a threshold,
TRELLIS (Xiang et al. 2024) generates the asset on de-
mand; retrieved and generated assets share a unified schema,
keeping downstream modules provenance-agnostic.
Progressive Physical Grounding (Stages 3–4).
Stage 3
solves for poses ξ from asset-bound G via constraint-based
layout optimization (Section 3.2); Stage 4 solves for θ from
the resulting layout and timeline H via differentiable physi-
cal optimization, ensuring every prescribed event is realized
(Section 3.3). Both write back into ESG.
Scene Compilation (Stage 5).
The fully grounded ESG is
finally compiled into an Unreal Engine scene class: event-
level motion is mapped to physics initialization calls and
event scheduling logic, emitting a C++ class that instantiates
assets, sets initial physics states, and triggers events per the
ESG timeline. The class loads directly into a UE project,
realizing both static layout and dynamic behaviors in a re-
producible, editable form. Details are in Supp. Mat. A.3.
3.2
Energy-Minimized Layout Optimization
After the draft ESG is grounded with engine assets, the ob-
ject poses ξ remain unresolved and may induce unsatisfied
spatial relations, geometric overlaps, or invalid support con-
figurations. Holding O, E, and R fixed, we determine ξ by
minimizing a unified constraint energy, proceeding in two
stages: constraint-aware initialization followed by multi-start
gradient-based refinement.
Unified Constraint Energy.
For the spatial specification
G = (O, E, R; ξ), the relation energy over the spatial graph
Φrel(ξ; E) =
X
e∈E
we Φτ(ξi, ξj),
(2)
where Φτ measures the violation of relation type τ and we =
ατce weights each edge by its semantic strictness ατ and


User Prompt:
“A car collide with a trashbin, 
knocking the trashbin to collide 
with a picnic table by the side.”
Stage1. Layered Draft Construction
LLM 
Instruction
Validation
& 
Correction
Overall Design
Object List
Layout Planning
Timeline Schedule
Stage2. Semantic Asset Resolution
Stage3. Energy-Minimized Layout Optimization
Stage4. Timeline-Constrained Physical Optimization
Asset
Requirement
Spatial
Relation
Graph
Timeline
System
 Layout Initialization
Asset Retrieval
Asset Generation
Gradient Optimization
Parameters
Initialization
Differentiable 
Physics Optimization
UE Executable Scene
Stage5. Executable Scene Generation
Asset 
Loading
Object 
Placement
Physics 
Initialization
Atomic
Control
car
car
car
car
car
car
Mesh & Properties
Static Layout
Dynamic
Schedule
timeline
fomulation
gradient
strategy
Figure 2: Method Overview. Given a natural-language prompt, our system first constructs a machine-checkable Evolutive Scene
Graph (ESG) and resolves its semantic objects to simulation-ready assets. It then grounds the spatial specification through
constraint-based layout optimization and grounds the event timeline through timeline-constrained physical optimization. The
fully grounded ESG is deterministically compiled into an executable Unreal Engine scene class.
confidence ce. The total layout energy incorporates collision
and region constraints:
Φ = Φrel +
X
oi∈O

λcolΦi
col(ξ) + λregΦi
reg(ξi, ρi)

,
(3)
where Φi
col and Φi
reg measure, respectively, collisions involv-
ing oi and its violation of the assigned region ρi ∈R. Pair-
wise collision penalties are distributed across incident ob-
jects so each collision is counted once. Together, these terms
yield a differentiable objective balancing semantic consis-
tency and physical placeability. We use a hybrid AABB–SDF
collision formulation; definitions are in Supp. Mat. A.1.
Constraint-Aware
Layout
Initialization.
Minimizing
Eq. 3 from arbitrary poses often leads to severe initial col-
lisions and poor local minima. We extract placement de-
pendencies from E, organize them as a DAG, and obtain
a topological order π = (π1, . . . , π|O|). Objects are then
placed sequentially: let Ωi ⊆ρ(oi) be the feasible pose do-
main for oi after accounting for region boundaries and asset
geometry. For the k-th initialization, we sample a candidate
set Ck
πt ⊂Ωπt and select
ξk,0
πt = arg min
ξ∈Ck
πt
∆Φ

ξ
 ξk,0
π<t

,
(4)
where ∆Φ is the energy increase from inserting the candidate
into the current partial layout, comprising the active relation,
collision, and region terms from Eq. 3. Initialization and
refinement thus optimize the same objective.
Multi-start Gradient-based Optimization.
Since Φ cou-
ples multiple spatial and geometric constraints, its landscape
is highly non-convex. Repeating the sequential sampling with
independent candidate sets and region-conditioned propos-
als yields K diverse initializations {ξk,0}K
k=1. All poses are
then jointly refined from each:
bξ
k = GD(Φ, ξk,0),
ξ∗= arg
min
ξ∈{bξ
k}K
k=1
Φ,
(5)
where GD(Φ, ξk,0) denotes gradient descent initialized at
ξk,0, terminating when the relative energy change falls below
ϵ or the iteration limit is reached. The lowest-energy result
ξ∗instantiates the final spatial specification G.
3.3
Timeline-Constrained Physical Optimization
Our dynamic stage solves for physically valid motion un-
der an explicit timeline, rather than relying on keyframes
or spline overrides that can violate dynamical consistency.
By formulating dynamic scene generation as an event-
constrained feasibility problem, we avoid over-specifying
motion details typically absent from natural-language de-
scriptions.
Event Formulation.
Recalling the event timeline H =
(P, I; θ), each event h ∈P ∪I identifies participating objects
from O, partitioned into active bodies governed by θ and pas-
sive bodies that evolve through physics, with remaining ob-
jects serving as static geometry. A point event p ∈P specifies
a discrete condition (e.g., Collision, PositionAt) realized
at a fixed time tp or within a window [tmin
p
, tmax
p
]. An interval
event i = (u, v) ∈I prescribes a motion regime (e.g., Uni-
formMotion, Brake) between two bounding point events,
with optional constraints on speed or heading. This formu-
lation decouples what must happen at discrete events from
how motion evolves between them, enabling event-level su-
pervision while leaving continuous trajectories to physics.
Optimization Objective.
Each event contributes a task
loss Lh
task encoding the required physical outcome and a
temporal loss Lh
win penalizing realization outside its admis-
sible window. A global prior Lp prevents parameters from
drifting to implausible values. The total objective is
L(θ) =
X
h∈P ∪I
 wh
taskLh
task + wh
winLh
win

+ wpLp.
(6)
For the dominant Collision event between bodies A and
B, let S be the simulated rollout frames. We identify the


closest-approach frame ˆs = arg mins∈S dsurf(A(s), B(s))
and set ˆt = ˆs∆t. The losses are
Lcol
task =

dsurf(A(ˆs), B(ˆs))
2
+,
Lcol
win = [tlo −ˆt]2
+ + [ˆt −thi]2
+,
(7)
where [x]+ = max(x, 0) and dsurf is the signed surface-to-
surface distance from the analytic proxies established during
layout optimization. The task loss vanishes at contact; the
temporal loss vanishes when contact occurs within [tlo, thi];
a fixed-time event sets tlo = thi. The prior Lp is a normalized
ℓ2 penalty relative to θ0. All losses are normalized by type-
specific reference scales before summation; remaining event
types are detailed in Supp. Mat. A.2.
Gradient Computation.
We evaluate event losses us-
ing Newton, the rigid-body simulation layer of NVIDIA
Warp (Macklin 2022), whose accurate contact resolution
ensures the objective reflects true physical outcomes. For
efficient gradient computation, we construct a differentiable
surrogate that integrates gravity and damping analytically
and models body–body interactions via soft-contact force
f = ke[−d]+ˆn, enabling automatic differentiation (AD)
through the full rollout in a single forward–backward pass.
For direct interactions, AD gradients are reliable and serve
as the default. For chain interactions, where upstream col-
lisions alter downstream trajectories, the simplified contact
model may misrepresent post-collision momentum transfer;
we therefore fall back to finite-difference (FD) gradients on
the full Newton simulator at the cost of 2|θ| forward simula-
tions per step. This AD-default, FD-fallback scheme balances
gradient efficiency with physical fidelity. The optimized pa-
rameters θ∗are written back to H, completing the fully
grounded dynamic scene specification.
4
Experiment
4.1
Quality Assessment
We evaluate the system on a representative suite of prompts
covering diverse requirements. Figure 3 and Figure 4 test
robustness to prompt specificity: simple inputs demonstrate
plausible completion of missing elements while preserving
narrative coherence; complex inputs with explicit numeric
constraints, asset cues, and temporal requirements are fol-
lowed with high fidelity and no spurious extrapolations.
For more complex scenarios, Figure 5 and Figure 6 show
long-sequence operations and multi-stage cascading interac-
tions. Results remain aligned with the narrative throughout;
downstream motions are refined by backpropagating event
losses from upstream interactions, yielding controllable pa-
rameter updates. More experiments in Supp. Mat. B.2.
4.2
Comparison with baselines
No public benchmark exists for text-to-dynamic scenes with
engine-verifiable events. We therefore construct 10 scenes
that progressively stress physical feasibility and interaction
complexity—comparable in scale to Scene Language (Zhang
et al. 2025) and PAT3D (Lin et al. 2026) (17/18 prompts)—
at three levels: single-event (S1–S4); chain events (S5–S7),
requiring multi-step momentum transfer; and multi-phase dy-
namics (S8–S10), with concurrent or time-windowed phases.
The suite has 18 timed events, matching these prompt suites
in evaluation load while covering longer causal chains under
rigid-body physics. Full definitions are in Supp. Mat. B.3.
Evaluation metrics.
We adopt three engine-native metrics
motivated by simulation-grounded benchmarks (Wei et al.
2026; Shang et al. 2026). SLR checks static validity: all ob-
jects spawn with penetration δ<2 cm. ECR counts an event
complete when native callbacks confirm sufficient impulse,
bounded penetration, and a +0.2 s post-hit recheck rules out
tunneling; chain events require ordered completion. PPA as-
signs each prompt-specified parameter a continuous score in
[0, 1]: satisfied constraints score 1; violations incur a pro-
portional penalty scaled by constraint magnitude (interval
half-width or point target). Initial-condition parameters are
scored over all K=5 runs; outcome parameters score non-
completion as 0.
Baselines.
Video-generation methods (GPT4Motion (Lv
et al. 2024), WonderPlay (Li et al. 2025b), PhysGen3D (Chen
et al. 2025)) target perceptual video synthesis rather
than parametric scenes with explicit physical states, lack-
ing object-level position, velocity, or collision records—
incommensurable with our task by design. Static-layout gen-
erators (Infinigen (Raistrick et al. 2023), LayoutGPT (Feng
et al. 2023), Holodeck (Yang et al. 2024b)) produce no dy-
namic output. SceneCraft (Hu et al. 2024) and PAT3D (Lin
et al. 2026) score 0% ECR, confirming spatial arrangement
alone cannot realize dynamic events. We compare Scene Lan-
guage (Zhang et al. 2025), imported into UE by extracting
poses and inferring launch velocities from kinematic trails
(Supp. Mat. B.3); SimWorld (Ye et al. 2025), whose dy-
namics follow agent policy rather than physical-parameter
optimization; and w/o Opt., our pipeline without gradient
refinement. All methods share prompts and ECR instrumen-
tation (K=5).
Experiment Results.
Figure 7 reports all three metrics.
Scene Language achieves 3.2/18 ECR (SLR ≈72%): occa-
sional single-collision successes but no causal mechanism for
chain events; high variance reflects its stochasticity, and PPA
is inapplicable. SimWorld achieves 1.4/18 (SLR ≈89%):
fixed animations yield large parameter errors (|∆t|=0.50 s,
|∆v|=1.96 m/s) and PPA of only 15.0%. w/o Opt. achieves
8.8/18 (SLR ≈94%): simple collisions succeed (S1–S3:
1.0±0.0), but second-stage chain contacts and complex ma-
neuvers fail without gradient feedback. Overall PPA is
61.0% (IC ≈100%; outcome ≈37%). Our method achieves
16.4/18 (SLR ≈94%) across all levels, with PPA 95.0%
(IC ≈100%, outcome ≈92%; |∆t|=0.07 s, |∆v|=0.23 m/s,
|∆m|=0.02 kg). The 7.6-point ECR gap and 55-point out-
come PPA gap (37% vs. 92%) show that differentiable event-
loss optimization—not LLM initialization—is decisive.
4.3
Ablation Study
We ablate four components: layout optimization, physical
parameter optimization, draft construction, and asset gener-
ation. We further ablate the gradient strategy (AD-default,


Figure 3: Scene generation from simple input. The system
infers and places implicit scene elements (e.g., bowling al-
ley, tableware) not explicitly mentioned, producing physically
plausible, semantically coherent layouts.
Figure 4: Scene generation from complex input. Explicitly
specified parameters (speed, turning angle, etc.) are treated as
hard constraints; remaining parameters are optimized within
the feasible solution space.
Figure 5: Long dynamic sequence generation. The timeline
representation supports long-horizon, multi-event specifica-
tions with parallel actions, enabling simultaneous control of
multiple vehicles through extended maneuver sequences.
Figure 6: Multi-stage cascading motion. A multi-stage event
loss is backpropagated through the full causal chain (e.g.,
cue ball →black ball →pocket), enabling precise control of
arbitrary chain reactions.
0
20
40
60
80
100
Event Completion Rate (%)
S1 (N=1)
S2 (N=1)
S3 (N=1)
S4 (N=1)
S5 (N=2)
S6 (N=2)
S7 (N=2)
S8 (N=2)
S9 (N=3)
S10 (N=3)
  Level 1: Single event
  Level 2: Chain events
  Level 3: Multi-phase dynamics
(a) Per-scene Event Completion Rate
Sc. Language
SimWorld
w/o Opt.
Ours
0
25
50
75
100
N/A
±8.0
15.0%
±5.0
61.0%
±3.0
95.0%
%
(d) Physical Parameter Accuracy (PPA)
Sc. Language
SimWorld
w/o Opt.
Ours
0
25
50
75
100
±18.1
17.8%
±2.7
7.8%
±11.9
48.9%
±5.7
91.1%
%
(c) Overall ECR  (N=18)
Sc. Language
SimWorld
w/o Opt.
Ours
0
25
50
75
100
±8.0
72.0%
±4.0
89.0%
±5.0
94.0%
±5.0
94.0%
%
(b) Scene Layout Rate (SLR)
Scene Language
SimWorld
w/o Opt.
Ours
Figure 7: Comparison on 10 test scenes (K=5 runs, mean ± 1 std). (a) Per-scene ECR by complexity level. (b–d) Overall SLR,
ECR, and PPA across methods; w/o Opt. denotes our method without differentiable optimization.


Figure 8: Ablation of global gradient-descent optimization.
Laptop captures center position, leaving no space for the tray.
Figure 9: Ablation of initial placement. The preference-based
strategy produces a more orderly starting layout.
FD-fallback) and the collision model (proxy with SDF re-
finement). Human evaluation and additional ablations are
in Supp. Mat. B.8 and Supp. Mat. B.7.
Ablation Study of ESG Draft Construction.
We ablate
hierarchical prompting (progressive staged generation) and
downstream validation (schema correctness and contradic-
tion detection). Results in Table 1 confirm both contribute
substantially; details in Supp. Mat. B.4.
Table 1: ESG draft construction ablation. Usability: percent-
age of error-free executable drafts. High-Quality | Usable:
percentage of usable drafts admitting low-energy layout.
Method
Usability (%)
High-Quality | Usable (%)
Single-shot prompt
76.5
58.0
w/o Validation
88.5
79.7
Ours (Hierarchical + Validation)
99.0
89.5
Ablation Study of Layout Optimization.
As shown
in Figure 8, greedy one-off placement evaluates poses only
against already-placed objects and cannot revise them, caus-
ing dead-ends: the laptop occupies the center, leaving no
feasible spot for the tray. Without global refinement, soft
relations (near) cannot be jointly satisfied and penetrations
remain. As shown in Figure 9, initializing all objects at region
centers yields symmetric configurations; the optimizer relies
on noise to break symmetry, producing penetration-free but
spatially underdetermined layouts. Both confirm that reli-
able layouts need sampling-driven initialization with global
gradient-based refinement.
Ablation Study of Gradient Strategy.
We compare three
strategies on scene S6 (K=5); see Table 2. AD-only com-
pletes all first-stage events (5/5) but fails on the chain event
(0/5): backpropagating through non-spherical car–trashbin
contact yields directional errors in surrogate normals. FD-
only achieves 90% via exact Newton physics at 4.4× run-
time. Our Hybrid matches FD accuracy at 90% while cutting
time by 33%, using AD for fast exploration and FD only for
chain-event refinement. Details in Supp. Mat. B.5.
Table 2: Gradient strategy ablation on vehicle chain-collision
scene S6 (K=5). Ev. 1: car–trashbin; Ev. 2: trashbin–table.
Method
Ev. 1
Ev. 2
Completion
Avg Time (s)
AD-only (Tape)
5/5
0/5
50.0%
35.2
FD-only
5/5
4/5
90.0%
153.5
Hybrid (Ours)
5/5
4/5
90.0%
101.3
Ablation Study of Collision Model.
We compare simple-
proxy optimization against proxy + SDF refinement on scene
S6 (K=10), measuring event-2 (trashbin-table collision)
success rate. The simple-proxy method achieves only 1/10
(10%): coarse geometry cannot reliably capture the con-
tact direction needed to guide the trashbin toward the ta-
ble. Adding SDF refinement raises success to 8/10 (80%),
as accurate surface-distance gradients substantially improve
chain-collision steering. Details are in Supp. Mat. B.6.
5
Conclusion and Discussion
We present a framework for generating executable, physically
consistent dynamic 3D scenes from natural language in Un-
real Engine. Central to our approach is the Evolutive Scene
Graph (ESG), which encodes entity properties, spatial layout,
and event timelines in a machine-checkable form. Gradient-
based optimization grounds semantic descriptions into con-
crete layouts, and differentiable physics optimization refines
physical parameters to satisfy the specified event timeline.
Experiments confirm substantial improvements over base-
lines in event completion and parameter accuracy.
Limitations and Future Work.
The system currently tar-
gets rigid-body dynamics and does not handle deformables,
fluids, or articulated motion. Discrepancies between proxy
geometry and UE runtime collision shapes also limit high-
precision simulation. Future work will address richer physi-
cal parameterizations, tighter proxy–runtime alignment, and
extensions to human actions and embodied agents.


References
Beaumont, R. 2022.
Clip Retrieval: Easily compute clip
embeddings and build a clip retrieval system with them.
https://github.com/rom1504/clip-retrieval.
Chen, B.; Jiang, H.; Liu, S.; Gupta, S.; Li, Y.; Zhao, H.; and
Wang, S. 2025. PhysGen3D: Crafting a Miniature Interactive
World from a Single Image. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 6178–6189.
DeVries, T.; Bautista, M. A.; Srivastava, N.; Taylor,
G. W.; and Susskind, J. M. 2021.
Unconstrained Scene
Generation with Locally Conditioned Radiance Fields.
arXiv:2104.00670.
Dhamo, H.; Manhardt, F.; Navab, N.; and Tombari, F. 2021.
Graph-to-3D: End-to-End Generation and Manipulation of
3D Scenes using Scene Graphs. In IEEE International Con-
ference on Computer Vision (ICCV).
Du, T.; Wu, K.; Ma, P.; Wah, S.; Spielberg, A.; Rus, D.;
and Matusik, W. 2021.
DiffPD: Differentiable Projective
Dynamics. ACM Trans. Graph., 41(2).
Feng, W.; Zhu, W.; Fu, T.-j.; Jampani, V.; Akula, A.; He, X.;
Basu, S.; Wang, X. E.; and Wang, W. Y. 2023. LayoutGPT:
Compositional Visual Planning and Generation with Large
Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.15393.
Fisher, M.; Ritchie, D.; Savva, M.; Funkhouser, T.; and Han-
rahan, P. 2012. Example-based synthesis of 3D object ar-
rangements. ACM Trans. Graph., 31(6).
Fu, H.; Cai, B.; Gao, L.; Zhang, L.-X.; Wang, J.; Li, C.;
Zeng, Q.; Sun, C.; Jia, R.; Zhao, B.; et al. 2021. 3d-front: 3d
furnished rooms with layouts and semantics. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vi-
sion, 10933–10942.
Hu, Y.; Anderson, L.; Li, T.-M.; Sun, Q.; Carr, N.; Ragan-
Kelley, J.; and Durand, F. 2020. DiffTaichi: Differentiable
Programming for Physical Simulation. ICLR.
Hu, Z.; Iscen, A.; Jain, A.; Kipf, T.; Yue, Y.; Ross,
D. A.; Schmid, C.; and Fathi, A. 2024.
SceneCraft: An
LLM Agent for Synthesizing 3D Scene as Blender Code.
arXiv:2403.01248.
Jaques, M.; Burke, M.; and Hospedales, T. M. 2019. Physics-
as-Inverse-Graphics: Joint Unsupervised Learning of Ob-
jects and Physics from Video. CoRR, abs/1905.11169.
Li, R.; Zheng, C.; Rupprecht, C.; and Vedaldi, A. 2025a.
DSO: Aligning 3D Generators with Simulation Feedback for
Physical Soundness. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.22677.
Li, X.; Lai, Z.; Xu, L.; Qu, Y.; Cao, L.; Zhang, S.; Dai, B.;
and Ji, R. 2024. Director3D: Real-world Camera Trajectory
and 3D Scene Generation from Text. arXiv:2406.17601.
Li, X.; Qiao, Y.-L.; Chen, P. Y.; Jatavallabhula, K. M.; Lin,
M.; Jiang, C.; and Gan, C. 2023. PAC-NeRF: Physics Aug-
mented Continuum Neural Radiance Fields for Geometry-
Agnostic System Identification. arXiv:2303.05512.
Li, Z.; Yu, H.-X.; Liu, W.; Yang, Y.; Herrmann, C.; Wetzstein,
G.; and Wu, J. 2025b. WonderPlay: Dynamic 3D Scene Gen-
eration from a Single Image and Actions. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision
(ICCV).
Lin, C.; and Mu, Y. 2024. InstructScene: Instruction-Driven
3D Indoor Scene Synthesis with Semantic Graph Prior. In In-
ternational Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Lin, G.; Huang, K.; Liu, M.; Gao, R.; Chen, H.; Chen, L.;
Lu, B.; Komura, T.; Liu, Y.; Zhu, J.-Y.; and Li, M. 2026.
PAT3D: Physics-Augmented Text-to-3D Scene Generation.
In International Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR).
Lv, J.; Huang, Y.; Yan, M.; Huang, J.; Liu, J.; Liu, Y.; Wen,
Y.; Chen, X.; and Chen, S. 2024. GPT4Motion: Scripting
Physical Motions in Text-to-Video Generation via Blender-
Oriented GPT Planning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Workshops (CVPRW), 1430–1440.
Macklin, M. 2022.
Warp: A High-performance Python
Framework for GPU Simulation and Graphics. https://github.
com/nvidia/warp.
NVIDIA GPU Technology Conference
(GTC).
Paschalidou, D.; Kar, A.; Shugrina, M.; Kreis, K.; Geiger, A.;
and Fidler, S. 2021. ATISS: Autoregressive Transformers for
Indoor Scene Synthesis. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Qiao, Y.-L.; Gao, A.; and Lin, M. C. 2022. NeuPhysics: Ed-
itable Neural Geometry and Physics from Monocular Videos.
In Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS).
Radford, A.; Kim, J. W.; Hallacy, C.; Ramesh, A.; Goh,
G.; Agarwal, S.; Sastry, G.; Askell, A.; Mishkin, P.; Clark,
J.; Krueger, G.; and Sutskever, I. 2021.
Learning Trans-
ferable Visual Models From Natural Language Supervision.
arXiv:2103.00020.
Raistrick, A.; Lipson, L.; Ma, Z.; Mei, L.; Wang, M.; Zuo, Y.;
Kayan, K.; Wen, H.; Han, B.; Wang, Y.; Newell, A.; Law, H.;
Goyal, A.; Yang, K.; and Deng, J. 2023. Infinite Photorealis-
tic Worlds Using Procedural Generation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR), 12630–12641.
Ritchie, D.; Wang, K.; and an Lin, Y. 2018. Fast and Flexible
Indoor Scene Synthesis via Deep Convolutional Generative
Models. arXiv:1811.12463.
Shang, Y.; Li, Z.; Ma, Y.; Su, W.; Jin, X.; Wang, Z.; Jin,
L.; Zhang, X.; Tang, Y.; Su, H.; et al. 2026. WorldArena:
A Unified Benchmark for Evaluating Perception and Func-
tional Utility of Embodied World Models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2602.08971.
Sun, F.-Y.; Liu, W.; Gu, S.; Lim, D.; Bhat, G.; Tombari, F.; Li,
M.; Haber, N.; and Wu, J. 2025. LayoutVLM: Differentiable
Optimization of 3D Layout via Vision-Language Models.
arXiv:2412.02193.
Tang, J.; Nie, Y.; Markhasin, L.; Dai, A.; Thies, J.; and
Nießner, M. 2024. Diffuscene: Denoising diffusion mod-
els for generative indoor scene synthesis. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition.


Wang, K.; Lin, Y.-A.; Weissmann, B.; Savva, M.; Chang,
A. X.; and Ritchie, D. 2019. PlanIT: planning and instan-
tiating indoor scenes with relation graph and spatial prior
networks. ACM Trans. Graph., 38(4).
Wang, K.; Savva, M.; Chang, A. X.; and Ritchie, D. 2018.
Deep convolutional priors for indoor scene synthesis. ACM
Trans. Graph., 37(4).
Wang, X.; Yeshwanth, C.; and Nießner, M. 2021. Scene-
Former: Indoor Scene Generation with Transformers.
arXiv:2012.09793.
Wei, B.; Huang, B.; Ma, J.; Zhang, Z.; and Cui, S. 2026.
FATE: Closed-Loop Feasibility-Aware Task Generation with
Active Repair for Physically Grounded Robotic Curricula.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.01505.
Xiang, J.; Lv, Z.; Xu, S.; Deng, Y.; Wang, R.; Zhang, B.;
Chen, D.; Tong, X.; and Yang, J. 2024. Structured 3D Latents
for Scalable and Versatile 3D Generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.01506.
Yang, G.; Yang, S.; Zhang, J. Z.; Manchester, Z.; and Ra-
manan, D. 2023. Physically Plausible Reconstruction from
Monocular Videos. In ICCV.
Yang, X.; Man, Y.; Chen, J.-K.; and Wang, Y.-X. 2024a.
SceneCraft: Layout-Guided 3D Scene Generation. In Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS),
volume 37.
Yang, Y.; Jia, B.; Zhang, S.; and Huang, S. 2025.
Sce-
neWeaver: All-in-One 3D Scene Synthesis with an Extensi-
ble and Self-Reflective Agent. arXiv:2509.20414.
Yang, Y.; Sun, F.-Y.; Weihs, L.; VanderBilt, E.; Herrasti, A.;
Han, W.; Wu, J.; Haber, N.; Krishna, R.; Liu, L.; Callison-
Burch, C.; Yatskar, M.; Kembhavi, A.; and Clark, C. 2024b.
Holodeck: Language Guided Generation of 3D Embodied
AI Environments. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Confer-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),
16227–16237.
Ye, X.; Ren, J.; Zhuang, Y.; He, X.; Liang, Y.; Yang, Y.;
Dogra, M.; Zhong, X.; Liu, E.; Benavente, K.; Nagaraju,
R. M.; Sharma, D. V.; Ma, Z.; Shu, T.; Hu, Z.; and Qin, L.
2025. SimWorld: An Open-ended Realistic Simulator for
Autonomous Agents in Physical and Social Worlds. In Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS),
volume 38.
Yu, L.-F.; Yeung, S.-K.; Tang, C.-K.; Terzopoulos, D.; Chan,
T. F.; and Osher, S. J. 2011. Make it home: automatic op-
timization of furniture arrangement. ACM Trans. Graph.,
30(4).
Zhai, G.; Örnek, E. P.; Wu, S.-C.; Di, Y.; Tombari, F.; Navab,
N.; and Busam, B. 2023. CommonScenes: Generating Com-
monsense 3D Indoor Scenes with Scene Graph Diffusion.
arXiv:2305.16283.
Zhang, Y.; Li, Z.; Zhou, M.; Wu, S.; and Wu, J. 2025.
The Scene Language: Representing Scenes with Programs,
Words, and Embeddings. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), 24625–24634.
Zhou, Q.; Zhang, H.; Lin, X.; Zhang, Z.; Chen, Y.; Liu, W.;
Zhang, Z.; Chen, S.; Fang, L.; Lyu, Q.; Sun, X.; Yang, J.;
Wang, Z.; Dang, B. C.; Chen, Z.; Ladia, D.; Dang, Q. V.;
Liu, J.; and Gan, C. 2026. Virtual Community: An Open
World for Humans, Robots, and Society. In International
Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Zhou, Y.; While, Z.; and Kalogerakis, E. 2019. SceneGraph-
Net: Neural Message Passing for 3D Indoor Scene Augmen-
tation. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV).


Generating Physically Consistent Dynamic Scenes from Text
Descriptions
Supplementary Material
A
Technical Implementation Details
A.1
Layout Optimization Details
Pose parameterization and feasibility.
We optimize a
lightweight pose for each object oi as xi = (pi, ri), where
pi ∈R3 is position and ri ∈R3 is orientation. Each object
is assigned a semantic region R(oi) ∈{Rr}r∈R. Hard feasi-
bility (e.g., support height induced by [On]) is enforced by
projection after each update, while the remaining constraints
are modeled as differentiable penalties. For SDF-based colli-
sion handling, we augment each object with optional geom-
etry fields: a dense SDF grid and a proxy point set sampled
near the object surface .
Relation energy and multi-relation aggregation.
As de-
fined in the main text, we represent semantic relations
as a typed directed graph G = (O, E). Each edge e =
(oi →oj, τ) ∈E contributes an unweighted edge penalty
Ee(xi, xj) = Fτ(xi, xj). When multiple relations exist be-
tween a pair of objects, we keep them as multiple edges and
sum their contributions. We aggregate relation energies over
all incident edges in the layout to obtain the global relation
energy:
Erel(O) =
X
e=(oi→oj,τ)∈E
weFτ(xi, xj).
(8)
Examples
of
Penalty
Calculation.
We
denote
by
Bi(xi) ⊂R3 the collision proxy of object oi under pose
xi, which can be instantiated by either a simple primi-
tive (e.g., sphere/AABB/OBB) or a more faithful composed
proxy when enabled (e.g., SDF). In our solver, each relation
edge e contributes to the total energy via a weighted penalty
we Fτ, where we = strictness(τ)·confidence(e) and Fτ ≥0
is the unweighted violation defined by the corresponding
constraint.
While simple proximity relations like Near use a straight-
forward dead-zone penalty on surface distance dsurf(Bi, Bj)
(as illustrated in the main text), directional relations require
decomposing the geometry along specific axes.
(Near) As an intuitive example, to instantiate Fnear, we
evaluate the surface distance dsurf of the collision proxies of
the two objects. Given an adaptive preferred distance d⋆and
a tolerance δ, we apply a dead-zone penalty:
Fnear(xi, xj) = [dsurf −(d⋆+ δ)]++[(d⋆−δ) −dsurf]+ ,
(9)
In implementation, the adaptive preferred distance d⋆is
computed from both object scale(¯si/j)and semantic-region
scale(SR):
d⋆= clamp

min
1
2 · min(¯si, ¯sj), ρd SR(i)

, dmin, dmax

,
(10)
where
[z]+
=
max(z, 0),
¯sk
=
4dx
k+4dy
k+dz
k
9
is
the
characteristic
size
of
object
ok,
SR(i)
=
q
(ux
R(i) −lx
R(i))2 + (uy
R(i) −ly
R(i))2 is the XY size of the
source semantic region R(i), and ρd is the distance ratio.
In our default setup, ρd
=
0.1, (dmin, dmax)
=
(8, 300) cm, and δ = clamp(ρtd⋆, δmin, δmax) with ρt =
0.2, (δmin, δmax) = (2, 80) cm.This yields zero penalty in-
side the admissible band [d⋆−δ, d⋆+ δ] and applies a linear
penalty for outside.
(Left_of) We define directional relations in the global
coordinate system, where left corresponds to +X. Let
∆x = xj −xi be the primary-axis offset (positive means
the target is on the required side) and ∆y = |yj −yi| be the
lateral deviation on the orthogonal axis. We decompose the
violation into a primary term and a lateral term:
Fleft_of(xi, xj) = F x
left_of(∆x) + F y
left_of(∆y).
(11)
The primary-axis term is modeled as a piecewise penalty
that strongly penalizes wrong-side configurations and softly
penalizes offsets outside a reasonable range:
F x
left_of(∆x) =







ϕwrong(∆x),
∆x < 0,
ϕnear(∆x),
0 ≤∆x < δmin,
0,
δmin ≤∆x ≤δmax,
ϕfar(∆x),
∆x > δmax,
(12)
where δmin is an adaptive minimum offset, δmax is an
adaptive upper range bound. Here ϕwrong, ϕnear, ϕfar de-
note three non-negative penalty functions (with different
shapes/strengths) used to realize the primary-axis piecewise
design: they map the primary offset ∆x to a violation mag-
nitude for the three regimes (wrong side, insufficient offset,
and excessive offset), while the preferred range [δmin, δmax]
incurs zero penalty.
The lateral-alignment term applies a quadratic penalty be-
yond an adaptive tolerance ty:
F y
left_of(∆y) = 1
c [∆y −ty]2
+ ,
(13)
with c > 0 a scaling constant. The same design extends to
other directional constraints (e.g., In_front_of) by pairing a
primary-axis term with an orthogonal-axis alignment term.
Collision and region penalties.
This section has been re-
vised comprehensively. Let Pall be all valid pairs (i, j) with
i < j, and let Li ∈{0, 1} indicate whether object i is treated
as a large collision object (Li = 1 when mesh complexity
above a threshold). We define the following collision energy
:
Ecol(O) =
X
(i,j)∈Paabb
ψaabb(i, j) +
X
(i,j)∈Psdf
ψsdf(i, j)
+
X
(i,j)∈Phybrid
ψhybrid(i, j).
(14)


AABB term. For axis a ∈{x, y, z}, define overlap depth
δa
ij =

min(ba
i,max, ba
j,max) −max(ba
i,min, ba
j,min)

+ .
Then
ψaabb(i, j) = waabb
X
a∈{x,y,z}
 δa
ij
2 ,
(15)
where waabb = ANALYSIS_AABB_WEIGHT.
SDF and HYBRID term. Let Qi→j be query samples on
object i evaluated against object j, and similarly Qj→i. For
q ∈Qi→j, define directional penetration
pi→j(q) = [m −dj(q)]+ ,
where m is safety margin and dj(q) is signed distance to
object j.
For Psdf, both objects use SDF queries. For Phybrid, one
object uses SDF queries and the large-object side uses signed
distance to AABB.
Define active (penetrating) sets :
Hi→j = {q ∈Qi→j | pi→j(q) > 0},
Hj→i = {q ∈Qj→i | pj→i(q) > 0}.
and three disjoint pair subsets :
P11 = {(i, j) ∈Pall | Li = Lj = 1},
P00 = {(i, j) ∈Pall | Li = Lj = 0},
P01 = {(i, j) ∈Pall | Li̸ = Lj}.
The runtime pair partition is
 Paabb, Psdf, Phybrid

=



(Pall, ∅, ∅),
AABB,
(∅, Pall, ∅),
SDF,
(P11, P00, P01),
HYBRID.
(16)
Define
Sij =
X
q∈Hi→j
pi→j(q)2+
X
q∈Hj→i
pj→i(q)2, Nij = |Hi→j|+|Hj→i|.
So finally the common pair penalty is :
ψ⋆(i, j) =



wsdf
Sij
Nij
,
Nij > 0,
0,
otherwise,
(17)
where wsdf = ANALYSIS_SDF_WEIGHT, with ψsdf = ψ⋆
on Psdf, ψhybrid = ψ⋆on Phybrid .
Region penalty is applied to object centers against
semantic-region bounds:
Ereg(O) = wreg
X
i
X
a∈Ai
 [la
i −pa
i ]2
+ + [pa
i −ua
i ]2
+

,
(18)
where pi = (px
i , py
i , pz
i ) is the center position of object i,
and pa
i denotes its coordinate on axis a; while [la
i , ua
i ] is the
valid interval on axis a.
Preference strategy in initial placement.
Beyond con-
straint satisfaction, we incorporate a lightweight preference
energy to improve the aesthetic quality and practicality of
the initial draft. For each object, the LLM predicts a coarse
preferred direction within its assigned semantic region (e.g.,
center, near boundary, left/right/front/back). We discretize
the region into a sampling grid and construct a preference
cost map Epref
i
(p) over candidate positions p by measuring
the deviation from the preferred direction (or anchor) using a
simple spatial prior. The overall score used in grid sampling
is
Ei(p) = Econs
i
(p) + λpref Epref
i
(p),
where Econs
i
aggregates relational and feasibility terms (e.g.,
collisions and region validity), and λpref keeps preferences
secondary to hard/strong constraints. This design makes the
placer prioritize constraint satisfaction when constraints are
present, while using preferences to break symmetries and
select semantically reasonable positions when constraints are
weak or underspecified.
In practice, adding Epref yields more balanced drafts (e.g.,
plates evenly distributed around a table, with a vase and cup
holder placed near the center), whereas removing it often
produces visually unbalanced layouts because the sampler
has no cue to distribute unconstrained objects. A better initial
draft also tends to reduce early collisions and provides a more
favorable starting point for subsequent continuous optimiza-
tion, improving both convergence stability and speed. This
preference strategy produces a low-conflict draft quickly;
detailed anti-penetration is delegated to the later continu-
ous stage. Keeping preference lightweight avoids introduc-
ing unnecessary geometric bias before relation constraints
are stabilized.
Optimization and projection.
As formulated in the main
text, the total energy is given by:
E(O) = Erel(O) + λcolEcol(O) + λregEreg(O)
(19)
where Erel(O) aggregates relation-edge energies on the
global graph as discussed above. The collision term Ecol(O)
and the region-boundary term Ereg(O) are defined in
Sec. Collision and region penalties.
We minimize the total energy with Adam updates and
gradient clipping, followed by projection ProjD(·) to enforce
region bounds and hard constraints:
θ(t+1) = ProjD

θ(t) −α
ˆm(t)
√
ˆs(t) + ϵ

.
(20)
We stop when the relative energy decrease falls below ϵstop
or a maximum number of iterations is reached.
A.2
Physical Optimization Details
Optimizable variables and bounds.
We collect all learn-
able timeline variables into a parameter vector θ. Each entry
corresponds to a named attribute in the ESG—such as an
actor’s initial speed, a contact impulse magnitude, a damp-
ing coefficient, or an object mass—and is associated with
a valid range [θmin, θmax] inferred from the LLM-generated
bounds in the timeline. Parameters marked as fixed scalars


in the ESG are excluded via a binary mask; after each opti-
mizer step we project by clamping θ back to its valid range
to ensure physical feasibility throughout optimization.
Window loss.
The temporal window constraint Le
win in
Eq. (11) is instantiated for the best-approach frame ˆt (Eq.
(13)) as a scale-normalized smooth barrier:
Lwin =
 
softplus
 β(tlo −ˆt)

β
 |thi −tlo| + ε

!2
+
 
softplus
 β(ˆt −thi)

β
 |thi −tlo| + ε

!2
,
(21)
where β controls boundary sharpness and ε is a numerical
stabilizer. For events with a fixed target time (i.e., tlo = thi),
the denominator collapses to ε and the term degrades to a
squared deviation from the target moment.
Loss terms for additional event types.
Beyond the Colli-
sion type formulated in Eq. (12–13), we define the following
losses for the remaining event types.
PositionAt. This point event requires that object i occupies
a specified position p∗at time tp:
LPOS
task =
pi(tp) −p∗2
2.
(22)
UniformMotion and Brake (interval events). An interval
event i = (u, v) ∈I prescribes a motion regime over the
span between bounding point events u and v. For a Uniform-
Motion segment with target speed v∗, we penalize deviation
from constant-speed travel at sampled interior frames {tk}:
LUNI
task = 1
K
K
X
k=1
 ∥˙pi(tk)∥−v∗2.
(23)
For a Brake segment we modify the linear damping of the
object, in order to simulate the braking motion. All interval-
event losses use the same window-loss structure as point
events, with [tlo, thi] set to the span of the enclosing interval.
Gradient computation and two-phase strategy.
The AD
surrogate integrates a penalty-based soft-contact impulse
f = ke max(0, −d)ˆn at each timestep, where d is the signed
surface distance between proxy shapes and ˆn the contact
normal. For sphere proxies the contact normal is the exact
center-to-center direction, making the surrogate gradient re-
liable for direct single-body interactions. For non-spherical
proxies (boxes, capsules) the normal is approximated from
the primitive SDF, which introduces directional error that
accumulates across chain interactions; we therefore switch
to FD gradients on the full Newton simulator whenever the
optimizer detects a chain event (i.e., the active body for event
ek+1 is a passive body in event ek). The switch threshold
is determined statically from the ESG dependency graph at
planning time, requiring no runtime detection.
Implementation and parameter update.
We implement
the forward rollout and loss evaluation in NVIDIA Warp
and differentiate via wp.Tape (reverse-mode AD). Gradient
updates follow Adam with step size η:
θ(k+1) = Π[θmin,θmax]

θ(k) −η e∇θL

,
(24)
where e∇denotes the stabilized gradient after masking fixed
entries, sanitizing NaN/Inf values, and clipping by global
norm, and Π projects parameters back into their valid range.
A coarse grid search over a 20-point discretization of θ pre-
cedes Adam to provide a warm-start initialization, reducing
sensitivity to the initial parameter draw.
A.3
Scene Class Generation Details
Given a validated ESG draft and the resolved asset bindings,
our backend deterministically translates the structured spec-
ification into an engine-executable scene class that can be
directly integrated into an Unreal Engine project.
Atomic control primitives.
High-level motion intents
produced by the optimization layer (e.g., [Uniform
Motion] or [Braking]) are not directly executable
in UE without an explicit control interface. We there-
fore represent dynamics as a sequence of atomic control
primitives that map one-to-one onto UE operations. Con-
cretely, we define primitives such as [SetVelocity],
[AdjustProperties], and [ApplyImpulse], and
implement a deterministic translation from abstract motions
to these primitives. This design provides a strict mapping
from event-level intent to low-level, physics-executable con-
trol, making dynamic scenes reproducible, debuggable, and
easy to iterate in a real engine.
Scene instantiation and code emission.
The generated
class is responsible for loading assets, instantiating and plac-
ing objects, initializing physics states, and executing dynamic
events according to the scene timeline. During instantiation,
we set key UE runtime properties such as [Mobility],
[SimulatePhysics], [Mass], and [Damping] to
ensure the scene behaves consistently under physics simu-
lation.
For static layout, we instantiate each object according to
its ESG-specified pose and scale, and load the corresponding
[StaticMesh] and [Materials] from the resolved
asset paths. For dynamics, we consume the ESG timeline as
an ordered list of atomic events; each event records its trigger
time, target objects, primitive type, and parameters.
At runtime, the generated class maintains a simulation
clock and, within UE’s Tick loop, checks whether the current
time reaches the trigger time of any pending events. When an
event is due, a dispatcher invokes the corresponding UE API
calls to apply the specified atomic controls. For transparency
and debugging, the system emits structured messages to UE’s
Output Log at the onset of each high-level event, allowing
users to track event execution and inspect relevant runtime
states. In addition, scene parameters remain editable in the
UE editor, enabling users to interactively adjust configura-
tions and iterate on the scene efficiently.
B
Additional Evaluation and Details
B.1
Time Consumption Evaluation
On a single workstation, generating one scene takes about
350 seconds end to end on average. The runtime is pri-
marily distributed across three stages, LLM drafting, which
accounts for approximately 120 seconds. Asset resolution,


which takes around 30 seconds and covers both retrieval and
optional generation. Layout and physical optimization, which
requires about 200 seconds, related to the complexity of the
scene layout and timeline arrangement.
B.2
More Quality Assessment
Specifying asset properties.
Figure 10 demonstrates the
system’s ability to respect explicit physical property con-
straints embedded in the prompt. Both rows depict a basket-
ball thrown toward a picnic table with bottles; the only differ-
ence is the mass specification: the first prompt uses a default
basketball, while the second specifies a tailor-made basket-
ball weighing 10 kg. With the heavier mass, the optimizer
assigns a correspondingly higher momentum to satisfy the
same collision event, resulting in a noticeably more forceful
impact—the table and bottles are displaced more dramati-
cally, as visible in the final frames. All other scene factors
(initial position, target, trajectory) remain identical, isolat-
ing mass as the sole variable. This confirms that the system
correctly propagates LLM-inferred physical priors into the
optimization loop, producing outcomes that are both seman-
tically faithful and physically differentiated by the specified
asset properties.
Assessing prompt sensitivity.
We further probe prompt
sensitivity through two controlled experiments. First, keep-
ing the scene unchanged and modifying only object proper-
ties ( Figure 10): the altered specification yields noticeably
different motion, confirming that the system respects asset-
level physical constraints. Second, fixing assets and vary-
ing only the event description ( Figure 11): changing which
ball to pocket produces qualitatively distinct, intent-aligned
outcomes, confirming sensitivity to subtle motion-semantics
edits.
B.3
Comparison Experiment Details
Test scenes.
Table 4 lists all 10 test prompts together with
their expected events and explicit quantitative constraints.
Scenes S1–S4 each impose a single contact event; S5–S7 re-
quire two chained contacts with multi-step momentum trans-
fer; S8–S10 involve more than one behavioral phase with
concurrent or time-windowed constraints. Five scenes (S3,
S4, S7, S8, S10) carry explicit quantitative targets—event
timing, output velocity, or object mass—used for the param-
eter accuracy evaluation in Table 6.
Evaluation protocol.
We evaluate three complementary
metrics derived from the engine-native simulation log.
Scene Layout Rate (SLR) measures static initialization
validity before simulation begins. A scene is valid when (i) all
text-prescribed objects are successfully spawned, and (ii) no
pair of objects exhibits an initial overlap depth exceeding
δ=2 cm, checked via UE’s ComputePenetration API.
Each of the K=5 runs uses an independent random seed; the
small but non-zero variance across runs reflects stochastic
elements in LLM-driven asset placement. Inspired by the
Scene Validity Rate of FATE (Wei et al. 2026), SLR separates
layout quality from dynamic success.
Event Completion Rate (ECR) is an engine-native binary
criterion for each prescribed dynamic event, analogous to the
Execution Validity Rate of FATE and the Task Success Rate
of WorldArena (Shang et al. 2026). An event is counted as
completed only when all four conditions are simultaneously
satisfied: (1) the target OnComponentHit callback fires
within Tmax=15 s; (2) penetration depth at the moment of
contact is less than 5 cm (ruling out initial-overlap false trig-
gers); (3) normal impulse exceeds Fmin=0.1 N·s (ruling out
ghost contacts); (4) a re-sample 0.2 s post-hit confirms that
the objects are no longer penetrating beyond 2 cm (ruling out
continued tunneling). For chain events, later-stage contacts
are credited only when all preceding contacts have already
been completed in the correct order, with a minimum inter-
event gap of 0.1 s to prevent same-frame double-counting.
Physical Parameter Accuracy (PPA). PPA measures how
closely prompt-specified parameters are satisfied, using a
continuous score in [0, 1] per parameter instance rather than
a binary pass/fail.
Score definition. For a point constraint x=x∗with preci-
sion threshold ϵ, the per-instance score is
s(x, x∗) =





1
|x −x∗| ≤ϵ,
max

0, 1 −|x −x∗| −ϵ
x∗

otherwise.
The denominator x∗normalises the violation by the mag-
nitude of the target, so that a given absolute error is pe-
nalised more for smaller targets. For an interval constraint
x ∈[a, b], let e(x) = max(0, a −x, x −b) be the out-of-
interval excess; the score is
s(x, [a, b]) =





1
e(x) = 0,
max

0, 1 −2 e(x)
b −a

otherwise.
Here the half-width (b−a)/2 serves as the reference scale: an
excess equal to the half-width yields a score of zero. In both
cases a score of 1 indicates full satisfaction; a score in (0, 1)
indicates a proportional violation; a score of 0 indicates a
violation at least as large as the reference scale.
Aggregation. For initial-condition parameters (mass, ini-
tial velocity) directly set at scene initialisation, all K=5 runs
contribute to the average regardless of event completion. For
outcome parameters (collision timing, post-collision veloc-
ity) that require a dynamic event to realise, runs where the
target event does not complete receive a score of 0. PPA is
the mean score over all parameter instances and runs. We
report PPA under three precision thresholds in Table 3 and
show that all qualitative conclusions are robust. Scene Lan-
guage is excluded as it outputs no physical parameters. The
underlying absolute errors are reported in Table 6.
Ablation baseline (w/o Opt.) is a variant of our system
in which the differentiable physical optimization stage is en-
tirely removed. Physical parameters (initial velocities, forces,
and masses) are retained at their LLM-assigned heuristic
values and remain fixed throughout simulation; no gradient-
based refinement is performed. The static layout optimiza-
tion, asset retrieval, ESG compilation, and UE instrumen-
tation pipeline are identical to our full method, so SLR is
unaffected. This variant isolates the contribution of differen-
tiable event-loss optimization to ECR and PPA.


Figure 10: Scene generation with different asset properties description. We vary the mass of the basketball, and set other factors
the same, leading to evidently different situations.
Each method is run K=5 times per scene with indepen-
dent random seeds. Static methods (SceneCraft, PAT3D) are
not UE-executable and are excluded from the formal com-
parison; they are discussed in the main text as representative
layout baselines. Scene Language is evaluated by importing
extracted primitive data into UE via our three-stage conver-
sion pipeline (Stage 1: shape extraction; Stage 2: velocity
inference; Stage 3: C++ class generation), and running full
physics simulation with the same ECR instrumentation ap-
plied to all other methods. SimWorld is instrumented with
the identical ECR callback logic.
Scene Language →UE adapter.
Scene Language (Zhang
et al. 2025) outputs a program-based representation with-
out UE-native physics state. We import it via a two-step
adapter: (i) execute the program in exposed mode, extract
primitive poses, group them into semantic rigid bodies, and
map them to UE BasicShapes under a fixed coordinate trans-
form ((X, Y, Z)UE=100(−z, x, y)SL cm); (ii) infer a linear
launch velocity from the last two kinematic-trail centers with
a scene-type reference speed, setting angular velocity to zero.
The resulting JSON is compiled by the same C++ emitter
and ECR callbacks as our method. Approximations (primi-
tive proxies, fixed reference speed, no angular velocity) can
only understate Scene Language’s visual quality; observed
failures are dominated by layout overlap (SLR ≈72%) rather
than inflated event completion.
Quantitative results.
Table 5 reports per-scene event com-
pletion for Scene Language, SimWorld, w/o Opt., and our
full method across the 10 test scenes.
Scene Layout Rate. Our method (and its ablated variant
w/o Opt.) achieves SLR = 94%±5% across all 10 scenes;
the layout optimization pipeline is shared, so both vari-
ants produce identical static initialization quality. SimWorld
yields SLR = 89%±4%; its city-scale asset placement heuris-
tics do not enforce precise object-level overlap constraints,
causing occasional violations. Scene Language achieves
SLR = 72%±8%; S6 consistently fails SLR due to directly
measured initial overlaps of −24 cm and −38 cm between
Figure 11: Scene generation with different event description. The first case is an adaptation of the first case in Figure 6, and the
second case is an adaptation of the second case in Figure 5.


car, trash can, and bench, and several other scenes exhibit
occasional penetration failures due to stochastic LLM sam-
pling, resulting in the higher variance.
Event Completion Rate. Scene Language achieves 3.2/18
overall (±3.3). On Level-1 single-event scenes, its procedural
trail primitives occasionally produce plausible ball trajecto-
ries, yielding partial success on ball-type scenes (S1, S2,
S4: 0.4±0.5 each); car-type and timing-constrained scenes
fail entirely (S3: 0.0±0.0). On chain events, Scene Language
partially succeeds on S7 (0.8±0.7), where the 2 cm initial
ball spacing enables event1 completion via the inferred trail
velocity; S6 scores 0 as its initial overlap prevents valid col-
lision impulses. Level-3 scenes all fall at or below 0.6/N:
the representation encodes no multi-phase temporal struc-
ture, and post-event snapshot initialization degrades layout
validity further.
SimWorld
completes
1.4/18,
contributing
only
S6
(0.4±0.5) and S8 (1.0±0.0), where pre-defined city-agent ani-
mations coincidentally satisfy the event constraints; all other
scenes score 0.
w/o Opt. achieves 8.8/18 (±2.1), revealing a clear and in-
terpretable failure pattern. On Level-1 scenes, LLM-assigned
heuristic parameters reliably realize all simple collision
events where the trajectory is determined by initial posi-
tion and velocity alone (S1, S2, S3: 1.0±0.0); S4 partially
succeeds (0.6±0.5) because the non-standard mass (10 kg)
combined with a tight 1-second timing constraint increases
initialization sensitivity and reduces event realization rate.
On chain events (S5–S7), the first contact succeeds in most
runs (S5: 0.8±0.4; S6: 0.6±0.5; S7: 1.0±0.0), but the second
contact fails in all runs without exception: no gradient feed-
back steers the post-collision trajectory of the intermediate
body toward its downstream target. On Level-3 multi-phase
scenes, the first event succeeds when it involves straight-
forward rectilinear motion (S8, S10 event 1), but turning
maneuvers fail in most runs (S9 event 1: 0.4±0.5) and brak-
ing sequences are correctly initiated in at most two runs (S8
event 2: 2/5; S10 event 2: 1/5), leaving all downstream colli-
sions unrealized. The 7.6-point ECR gap relative to our full
method (8.8 vs. 16.4) directly quantifies the contribution of
differentiable event-loss optimization.
Our full method achieves 16.4/18 (±1.0). The two incom-
plete events occur in S10, the most complex three-body chain
scene, where gradient signal attenuates over the extended
optimization horizon. Pairwise Wilcoxon signed-rank tests
(per-run sums, K=5) confirm our method significantly out-
performs all baselines (p<0.05).
Physical Parameter Accuracy. Table 6 reports the under-
lying absolute errors; PPA scores are computed from these
errors per the definition in Supp. Mat. B.3. Scene Language
is excluded as it produces no physical parameters.
w/o Opt. achieves PPA = 61.0% (±5%), revealing a quali-
tative split between parameter types. Literal initial-condition
parameters directly assignable by the LLM (mass, initial ve-
locity, speed range) score 1.0 in all runs: S4 mass error is
0.20±0.10 kg, S8 initial speed error is 0.40±0.30 m/s, and S10
speed lies within [5, 10] m/s in every run. Emergent outcome
parameters depending on unfolding dynamics receive only
partial credit: collision timing (S3: 1.50±0.70 s, score = 0.60;
S4: 0.85±0.40 s with two non-completions, score = 0.27) and
post-collision velocity (S7 vB: 1.80±0.60 m/s, score = 0.60)
incur substantial deductions, while S10 timing fails entirely
(no completions, score = 0). Aggregated over outcome pa-
rameters only, w/o Opt. achieves an outcome PPA of 37%.
SimWorld achieves PPA = 15.0% (±8%): partial credit on
S8 initial speed (error = 2.92 m/s, score = 0.81) and S8 brak-
ing time (excess = 0.32 s, score = 0.36) yield small non-zero
contributions; all other parameters score 0 due to event non-
completion.
Our full method achieves PPA = 95.0% (±3%), with near-
perfect scores on all constraints in all runs. The three
sub-unity contributions are the S8 velocity outlier (er-
ror = 1.1 m/s in one run) and two S10 rear-end collision non-
completions. The 34-point gap in overall PPA between w/o
Opt. (61%) and our method (92%), and the 55-point gap on
outcome parameters alone (37% vs. 92%), confirm that dif-
ferentiable event-loss optimization is the decisive factor for
satisfying temporal and causal constraints.
PPA Precision Robustness.
The continuous PPA score
uses a precision threshold ϵ to define the “fully satisfied”
region (score = 1); violations beyond ϵ receive proportional
partial credit. Table 3 reports PPA under three threshold
choices, confirming that all qualitative conclusions are ro-
bust: (i) the substantial gap between our method and w/o
Opt. on outcome parameters persists across all settings, and
(ii) literal initial-condition parameters yield a stable score
floor for w/o Opt. that is largely threshold-independent.
Table 3: PPA sensitivity to precision thresholds (same 40
constraint measurements; Scene Language excluded).
Threshold set
(ϵt, ϵv, ϵm)
w/o Opt.
SimWorld
Ours
Strict
(0.2 s, 0.5 m/s, 0.3 kg)
57%
14%
95%
Standard (paper)
(0.3 s, 1.0 m/s, 0.5 kg)
61%
15%
95%
Lenient
(0.5 s, 2.0 m/s, 1.0 kg)
68%
16%
95%
B.4
Ablation Study of Draft Construction
We ablate both draft construction components on 200 scene
descriptions using GPT-4.1, comparing three configurations:
(i) single-shot prompt, which generates a complete ESG in
one response with no retry or validation; (ii) w/o Validation,
which applies hierarchical prompting but passes drafts di-
rectly downstream without the validation step; and (iii) Ours,
which combines hierarchical prompting with full validation.
Final usability and high-quality rate are evaluated as defined
in Sec. 4.3; results are reported in Table 1.
Hierarchical prompting improves usability by decompos-
ing ESG generation into progressively constrained stages,
reducing schema errors and reference inconsistencies that
single-shot outputs frequently produce. The validation sys-
tem further raises final usability to 99.0% by filtering mal-
formed or contradictory drafts before they enter the optimiza-
tion pipeline, and raises the high-quality rate by ensuring that
only structurally sound drafts—those admitting a valid low-
energy layout—proceed downstream.


Table 4: Test scene specifications. Events are listed in se-
quential order; constraints in parentheses are the quantitative
requirements used in Table 6.
ID
Level
Prompt & Events
N
S1
Single
A bowling ball rolls toward a set of bowling pins and
hits them.
(1) ball–pin collision
1
S2
A soccer ball hits a tidy office desk.
(1) ball–desk collision
1
S3
A car move towards a jeep and collide with it after 3
seconds.
(1) car–jeep collision (tcollide=3.0 s)
1
S4
A tailor-made basketball weigh 10kg is thrown toward
a picnic table with many bottles on it, and hit after 1
seconds.
(1)
ball–table
collision
(mball=10 kg, tcollide=1.0 s)
1
S5
Chain
There are several billiards on the billiard table. The
cue ball strikes the black ball, sending it cleanly into
the bottom pocket.
(1) cue–black collision
(2) black ball into pocket
2
S6
A car collide with a trashbin, knocking the trashbin to
collide with a picnic table by the street side.
(1) car–trashbin collision
(2) trashbin–table colli-
sion
2
S7
There are three balls on the ground. Ball A moves and
hits ball B, giving ball B an initial speed at 2m/s, then
ball B hits ball C.
(1) A–B collision
(2) B–C collision (vB=2.0 m/s)
2
S8
Multi-phase
A black car is moving at 10 m/s down the road. The
driver starts braking, letting the car to stop in 2 3
seconds.
(1) car move down the road
(2) car brakes to stop
(vcar=10 m/s, tbrake_to_stop∈[2, 3] s)
2
S9
A car moves along the street and turns left at a cross.
It brakes hard after entering the new lane, but still hits
a bicycle stopped in the middle of the road.
(1) car turns left
(2) car brakes
(3) car–bicycle
collision
3
S10
Two cars moves at the same speed of 5 10m/s, one in
front of the other. The front car suddenly brakes, and
two cars collide after 1 second.
(1) two cars in motion
(2) front car brakes
(3)
rear-end collision (vcars∈[5, 10] m/s, tcollide=1.0 s)
3
B.5
Ablation Study of Gradient Strategy
Scene and setup.
We use scene S6 (car →trashbin →ta-
ble), which involves non-spherical collision proxies: the car
is represented by a box primitive and the trashbin by a cylin-
drical proxy. This geometry makes the scene a suitable stress
test for gradient quality: the first event (car →trashbin) is
a direct interaction whose gradient is relatively straightfor-
ward, while the second event (trashbin →bench) is a chain
interaction where the gradient must backpropagate through
the non-spherical car–trashbin contact. We run each variant
for K=5 independent runs with different random initializa-
tions of the car’s initial speed.
Table 5: Dynamic event completion on 10 test scenes, av-
eraged over K=5 independent runs. N = expected events
per scene. Each cell shows mean ± std completed events; the
Total row reports std over the five per-run sums. w/o Opt.
denotes our method without differentiable physical optimiza-
tion (LLM-assigned parameters only).
Scene
N
Sc. Language
SimWorld
w/o Opt.
Ours
Level 1: Single event
S1
1
0.4±0.5
0.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
S2
1
0.4±0.5
0.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
S3
1
0.0±0.0
0.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
S4
1
0.4±0.5
0.0±0.0
0.6±0.5
1.0±0.0
Level 2: Chain events
S5
2
0.4±0.5
0.0±0.0
0.8±0.4
2.0±0.0
S6
2
0.0±0.0
0.4±0.5
0.6±0.5
1.8±0.4
S7
2
0.8±0.7
0.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
2.0±0.0
Level 3: Multi-phase actor dynamics
S8
2
0.0±0.0
1.0±0.0
1.2±0.4
2.0±0.0
S9
3
0.2±0.4
0.0±0.0
0.4±0.5
2.2±0.8
S10
3
0.6±0.5
0.0±0.0
1.2±0.4
2.4±0.8
Total
18
3.2±3.3
1.4±0.5
8.8±2.1
16.4±1.0
Table 6: Absolute parameter errors underlying PPA, on five
scenes with explicit physical constraints. Cell values are
|∆|±std; n/5 denotes runs where the constraint is evaluated
(error is 0 when the output falls within a window constraint;
“ — ” = event did not occur). Initial-condition parameters are
evaluated over all K=5 runs; outcome parameters only over
runs where the event completes, with non-completion scored
as 0. PPA (%): w/o Opt. 61.0; SimWorld 15.0; Ours 95.0.
Scene Language excluded (no physical parameters output).
Constraint
w/o Opt.
SimWorld
Ours
S3
t (s) = 3.0
1.50±0.70 (5/5)
—
0.16±0.05 (5/5)
S4
m (kg) = 10
0.20±0.10 (5/5)
—
0.02±0.04 (5/5)
t (s) = 1.0
0.85±0.40 (3/5)
—
0.06±0.05 (5/5)
S7
vB (m/s) = 2.0
1.80±0.60 (5/5)
—
0.14±0.08 (5/5)
S8
v (m/s) = 10.0
0.40±0.30 (5/5) 2.92±2.39 (5/5) 0.56±0.30 (5/5)
t (s) ∈[2.0, 3.0]
0.00±0.00 (2/5) 0.32±0.32 (5/5) 0.00±0.00 (5/5)
S10 v (m/s) ∈[5.0, 10.0] 0.00±0.00 (5/5)
—
0.00±0.00 (5/5)
t (s) = 1.0
—
—
0.07±0.05 (3/5)
Why AD fails on chain events with non-spherical geome-
try.
For sphere–sphere contacts, the contact normal is ex-
actly center-to-center, so the AD surrogate gives accurate gra-
dient directions. For non-spherical primitives (boxes, cylin-
ders), the contact normal depends on which face or edge is
closest—a quantity that the penalty-based soft-contact model
approximates via the primitive SDF. This approximation in-
troduces a directional error in the contact impulse, which
propagates as gradient noise when backpropagating through
the chain. In practice, the AD gradient for the first event
remains reliable (5/5 completions), but the chain gradient
for the second event becomes sufficiently inaccurate to pre-
vent convergence (0/5 completions). FD gradients, evaluated
on the full Newton simulator with exact contact resolution,


avoid this issue at the cost of 2|θ| additional forward passes
per step.
Per-run results.
Run
Ev. 1
Ev. 2
Time (s)
AD-only
1
✓
×
33
2
✓
×
35
3
✓
×
36
4
✓
×
37
5
✓
×
35
FD-only
1
✓
✓
144
2
✓
✓
152
3
✓
✓
156
4
✓
×
155
5
✓
✓
160
Hybrid (Ours)
1
✓
✓
99
2
✓
✓
91
3
✓
✓
103
4
✓
✓
112
5
✓
×
101
Switching criterion.
The AD→FD switch is determined
statically at planning time by inspecting the ESG dependency
graph: if the active actor for event ek+1 appears as a passive
body in event ek (i.e., it receives rather than initiates the up-
stream contact), the optimizer flags the chain as FD-required
for all gradient steps involving ek+1. This requires no run-
time detection and adds no overhead beyond the FD gradient
calls themselves.
B.6
Ablation Study of Collision Model
Scene and setup.
We use scene S6 (car →trashbin →ta-
ble), isolating event-2 (trashbin–table collision) as the eval-
uation target. The car’s initial speed is optimized by our
full Hybrid method, so both variants start from the same
post-event-1 trashbin state; only the collision model for the
trashbin–table contact is varied. Each variant is run K=10
times.
Simple proxy vs. SDF refinement.
The simple-proxy vari-
ant represents the car, trashbin and table by their bounding-
box sphere approximations (box or sphere). While sufficient
for detecting rough proximity, this coarse geometry underes-
timates the effective contact offset and misestimates the con-
tact normal direction for cylindrical and rectangular bodies,
causing the optimizer to steer the trashbin along an incor-
rect trajectory that bypasses the bench. The SDF-refinement
variant follows a two-stage procedure: it first runs the simple-
proxy optimizer to obtain a warm-start parameter, then runs
an additional refinement pass in which contact distances and
normals are computed from voxel SDFs loaded for both ac-
tors. The higher-fidelity surface gradients provide a more
accurate steering signal for the narrow-corridor approach re-
quired to make the trashbin contact the table.
Actual results.
Method
Event-2 successes
Success rate
Simple proxy only
1/10
10%
Proxy + SDF (Ours)
8/10
80%
Figure 12: Ablation study of Differentiable physics optimiza-
tion. For cascading multi-stage motion and long-sequence
motion, initialization can hardly achieve the goal without
differentiable physics optimization.
The single success of the simple-proxy baseline occurs on
a run whose random initialization happened to place the
trashbin on a near-optimal trajectory, confirming that the
baseline can only succeed by chance rather than by reliable
gradient guidance. The 80% success rate of SDF refinement
reflects the residual difficulty of the narrow-target geometry;
the two failures arise from initializations where the warm-
start proxy solution is too far from the SDF solution basin to
be recovered within 30 steps.
B.7
More Ablation Studies
Ablation Study of Asset Generation
We ablate our asset
generation module, which conditionally invokes Trellis to
synthesize a 3D asset when library retrieval confidence falls
below an empirically chosen threshold. We design prompts
that include a user-specified object unlikely to be covered
by the asset library and compare two variants under identi-
cal settings: (i) retrieval-only, which directly substitutes the
object with the closest library match, and (ii) retrieval + gen-
eration (ours), which generates the missing asset from text
and imports it before scene construction. As shown in Fig-
ure 13, enabling asset generation apparently produces assets
that better match the requested object, allowing the pipeline
to satisfy open-vocabulary user intents beyond the library’s
coverage.
Ablation Study of Dynamic Optimization
Differentiable
physics optimization is crucial for dynamic scene genera-
tion, since many event targets cannot be satisfied by di-
rectly assigning motion parameters with simple heuristics.
We ablate this module by removing dynamic optimization
and using only rule-based initialization of object parameters
(e.g., coarse velocity estimates), while keeping the rest of the
simulation pipeline identical. As shown in Figure 12, in a
cascading scenario, the initialization-only baseline can often
trigger the first contact (car →bin) but cannot reliably en-
force the downstream event (bin →car). Only with dynamic
optimization enabled, can the system adjust motion param-
eters to satisfy such multi-stage cascades as well as longer,
more complex sequences.
B.8
Human Evaluation on Ablation Study
We conduct a user study on 20 generated dynamic scenes to
assess the perceptual quality. Each scene is evaluated by 37


Figure 13: Ablation study of Asset Generation. Retrieval-
only method is limited by the capacity of asset library, forcing
to return the matched object(a teddy bear in this case), while
asset generation module can better meet the user’s unique
requirements.
experienced users from two perspectives: (i) scene quality,
focusing on physical plausibility and overall realism of mo-
tions and interactions, and (ii) input alignment, measuring
how well the generated scene adheres to the given textual
specification. Both criteria are rated on a 5-point scale (1:
very poor, 5: excellent). We compare the full system against
four ablated variants: removing global optimization, initial
placement, dynamic optimization, and asset generation. The
result is shown in Table 7.
Table 7: User study on ablated variants, rated on a 5-point
scale.
Method
Scene quality ↑
Input alignment ↑
Ours (Full)
4.4 ± 0.4
4.5 ± 0.4
w/o Global optimization
4.0 ± 0.5
2.7 ± 0.6
w/o Initial placement
3.8 ± 0.5
2.8 ± 0.9
w/o Dynamic optimization
4.4 ± 0.4
2.8 ± 0.8
w/o Asset generation
3.9 ± 0.5
2.3 ± 0.6
B.9
Failure Case Analysis
Complex model cascading events.
In Figure 14, we exam-
ine a demanding multi-stage scenario in which a car strikes a
trash bin, which then travels to precisely collide with a second
bin placed farther away. When such cascading requirements
are specified with particularly tight spatial or temporal tol-
erances, the success rate can decrease compared to simpler
scenes. This stems from a gap between the differentiable col-
lision proxies used during optimization and the true contact
geometry executed by Unreal Engine at runtime: for com-
plex assets such as vehicles and bins, small differences in
contact offsets and post-impact trajectories can accumulate
across stages, occasionally causing the downstream collision
to be missed in the UE replay even when the proxy-based
rollout satisfies the objective. Relaxing the event tolerance
or subdividing the cascade into separately optimized stages
largely mitigates this effect.
Physically unreasonable prompts.
Our system prioritizes
physical consistency over literal compliance when a prompt
specifies behaviors irreconcilable with rigid-body dynamics.
As an illustrative example, consider the prompt: “A light
ball moving at speed v strikes a heavy stationary ball; the
Figure 14: A typical failure case. User intends to let the trash-
bin collide with another trashbin, but the actual optimization
sometimes fails to meet the precise demand due to the dif-
ference of proxy geometry.
heavy ball moves away at speed v after the collision with
no other forces.” This violates momentum conservation: a
lighter impactor cannot transfer its full speed to a heavier
target, so the prescribed post-collision velocity is physically
unattainable. Rather than forcing the scene to satisfy the
literal requirement, the optimizer seeks the nearest feasible
configuration—maximizing the heavy ball’s post-collision
speed within the bounds allowed by the mass ratio and im-
pact geometry—while the physical prior Lprior prevents pa-
rameters from drifting to non-physical values. The resulting
scene is executable in the physics engine and as close to
the user’s intent as physics permits, though the heavy ball
reaches a lower speed than specified. This behavior reflects
an intended design principle: the rigid-body simulation loop
acts as a feasibility filter, ensuring that generated scenes re-
main grounded in real dynamics even when user intent is
over-specified or physically contradictory.
C
Evolutive Scene Graph Schema
Specification
We adopt a unified, structured scene representation termed
Evolutive Scene Graph (ESG) to serve as a machine-
checkable and reading-friendly contract across all modules.
Specifically, ESG is a JSON object whose top-level fields are
organized into four core components shown in the canonical
structure below,
Listing 1: Canonical ESG skeleton.
1
{
2
"scene_definition": { ... },
3
"asset_requirement": { ... },
4
"spatial_relation_graph": { ... },
5
"timeline_system": { ... }
6
}
In practice, ESG is refined through four sequential stages
that mirror the modular structure of the pipeline described
in Section 3. The first stage, detailed in Section 3.1 under
Layered Draft Construction, translates the user prompt into
a schema conformant ESG draft by instantiating object in-
tents, coarse spatial relations, and an initial sketch of the
event timeline. The second stage, presented in Section 3.2
as Asset Resolution, grounds these semantic drafts by re-


solving each asset_requirement into concrete, engine-ready
resources through retrieval or on-demand generation, while
attaching canonical geometry and physics profiles to estab-
lish deterministic asset bindings. The third stage, introduced
in Section 3.3 as Static Layout Solving, converts the semantic
relation graph into an explicit static scene layout by jointly
solving object poses and scales under physical feasibility,
while respecting all specified structural constraints and se-
mantic regions. The final stage, described in Section 3.4 as
Dynamic Optimization, completes the temporal program by
optimizing event timings and motion-related physical param-
eters under simulation constraints, producing an executable
timeline composed of atomic control actions that can be di-
rectly replayed in the engine.
C.1
scene_definition: Metadata of Scene
Description
Listing 2: brief example of scene_definition.
1
"scene_definition":{
2
"scene_id": { ... },
3
"coordinate_system": { ... },
4
"original_description": { ... },
5
"expanded_description": { ... },
6
"scene_parameters": {
7
"is_dynamic": ...,
8
"scene_type": ...,
9
...
10
}
11
}
The unique scene_id is for identifying different scene files.
The coordinate_system block specifies the coordinate con-
vention, units, and world bounds. The paired text fields orig-
inal_description and expanded_description that retain the
user input and the LLM-expanded narrative used by down-
stream modules. Finally, more scene_parameters such as
is_dynamic and scene_type are also stored in this region.
C.2
Asset Requirement & Configuration
ESG represents assets using a two-level abstraction to ex-
plicitly decouple what is needed from what is used.
asset_requirement is a dictionary keyed by unique asset_id
given by LLM. Each value specifies the desired category (as-
set_category), descriptive attributes (asset_description), and
coarse physical priors (e.g., expected_dimensions_cm, ex-
pected_mass_kg, is_movable). These fields are produced in
stage0 and are used for asset retrieval(or generation), layout
reasoning and physical initialization. After retrieval(or gen-
eration), this region becomes asset_configurations in stage1,
binding each semantic requirement to a concrete engine as-
set, including identifiers and file paths, realized scale, orien-
tation, and physics-relevant attributes.
C.3
Spatial Relation Graph: semantic description
of scene layout
Static structure is expressed as a directed relation graph G
including following fields:
• Semantic regions defines named placement zones. Every
object must belong to a semantic region, and every seman-
tic region is provided by its parent object. For example,
wooden_table provides a table_face region, so wooden
table is parent object of table_surface.
• Nodes. Each node is corresponding to an object in
the scene, having a unique node_id. Each node in-
cludes an asset_id that must refer to a key in
asset_requirement, which means it is an instance
of the referred asset. The node should also make clear of
its semantic region, or announce to be a structural object
if it make up the basic structure of the scene(e.g. ground,
wall)
• Edges.
Relations
includes
binary_relations
and
multi_relations, each represented by a directed edge
with specific relation_type, confidence score and a brief
description of this relation.
Common relations include "on, under, in_front_of, be-
hind, left_of, right_of, near, adjacent, far_from, above,
higher_than, lower_than, same_level_as, face, inside_of,
center_of, attached_vertical,
attached_horizontal, between, surround, align, scatter_by".
The following part is a brief example of the fields of spatial
relation graph, with some values omitted.
Listing 3: brief example of spatial_relation_graph.
1
"spatial_relation_graph": {
2
"semantic_regions": {
3
"floor_area_1": {
4
"region_description": "...",
5
"region_type": "SUPPORT_SURFACE"
,
6
"parent_object": "floor_1"
7
},
8
...
9
}
10
"nodes": {
11
"table_1": {
12
"asset_id": "
modern_office_desk_table_01",
13
"semantic_region": "floor_area_1
"
14
},
15
...
16
}
17
"edges": {
18
"binary_relations": [
19
{
20
"from": "desk_1",
21
"to": "floor_1",
22
"relation_type": "on",
23
"confidence": 0.99,
24
"semantic_description": "..."
25
},
26
...
27
]
28
}
29
}
C.4
Timeline System: sequential schedule of
dynamic process
Only required if the scene is dynamic. ESG encodes both
what should happen and what is physically controllable.


Actors and controllability.
actors assigns each object
instance a role (active/passive). Active objects can move
actively, whose parameters can be controlled. While pas-
sive objects can only be forced to move, with their pa-
rameters unable to adjust. Active actors should further
specify a force_direction constraint that restricts the direc-
tions in which controlling forces can be applied, with al-
lowed values including ANY_3D (unconstrained), HORI-
ZONTAL_PLANE (forces confined to the XY plane), and
ALONG_FORWARD_OR_BACKWARD (forces aligned
with the object’s forward axis in either direction).
Event sequence graph.
Temporal structure is encoded as
a sequence graph consisting of event nodes and event edges.
Nodes represent milestones (e.g., SceneStart, Collision, Po-
sitionAt) with timestamps or time windows; edges represent
high-level continuous actions (e.g., UniformMotion, Toward)
linking milestones and carrying physical parameters or their
ranges. The duration of each action is defined by the time dif-
ference between its source and target milestone events. All
parameters—including event timestamps and action-related
physical quantities—can be specified either as fixed values
or as bounded intervals, depending on the user input. Fixed-
value parameters are treated as hard constraints and remain
not optimizable, while interval-bounded parameters become
optimization variables during the dynamic solving stage.
The following part is a brief example of the fields of time-
line_system, with some values omitted.
Listing 4: brief example of timeline_system.
1
"timeline_system": {
2
"actors": {
3
"car_1": {
4
"role": "active",
5
"force_direction": "
ALONG_FORWARD_OR_BACKWARD"
6
},
7
},
8
"sequence_graph": {
9
"nodes": [
10
{
11
"id": "scene_start",
12
"event": "SceneStart",
13
"timestamp": 0.0
14
},
15
{
16
"id": "car_trashbin_collision"
,
17
"event": "Collision",
18
"participants": [
19
"car_1",
20
"trashbin_1"
21
],
22
"window": [1.7,1.9],
23
"constraint": {...}
24
}
25
]
26
"edges": [
27
{
28
"id": "
car_uniform_motion_before_collision
",
29
"from": "scene_start",
30
"to": "car_trashbin_collision"
,
31
"event": "UniformMotion",
32
"actor": "car_1",
33
"target": "trashbin_1",
34
"params": {
35
"speed": [100,3000],
36
...
37
}
38
}
39
]
40
}
41
}
D
System Prompts
Our prompt system is organized into multiple layers; due to
space limitations, we only include a subset of representative
prompt fragments that capture the key analysis steps.
D.1
Asset Requirement Analysis Prompt
Scene Asset Expansion & Specification Prompt
Analyze the user’s scene description and plan the
object list through the following steps:
1) Include all user-mentioned objects (mandatory).
Every object explicitly mentioned by the user must ap-
pear as an object instance in the scene. If the user men-
tions an object that does not exist in the predefined cat-
egory list, map it to the closest available category rather
than inventing a new one.
2) Decide whether supplementary objects are allowed.
• If the user explicitly restricts the scene (e.g., “only
A”, “no other objects”), do not add supplementary
objects beyond what the user mentioned (plus neces-
sary structural/base elements).
• Otherwise, perform controlled expansion: add only
objects that logically belong to the scene type and
support the user’s intent.
3) Perform controlled expansion (when allowed).
Add supplementary objects conservatively, guided by
the following principles:
• Logical necessity: add only items that naturally co-
occur (e.g., a table typically implies a chair).
• Scene appropriateness: choose props that fit the de-
scribed environment (e.g., study scenes: books/lamp;
street scenes: street elements).
• Avoid overcrowding: do not turn a simple request
into a cluttered scene; added objects must remain
secondary to user-mentioned objects.
4) Name objects logically and avoid duplication.
Use only logical instance names (e.g., desk_1, lap-
top_1, room_1). Never use asset-style identifiers as ob-
ject names.
Ensure one clear object instance per real object—do not
create duplicates by mixing “asset identifiers” and “ob-
ject instances” as if they were separate physical objects.


5) Specify assets with matching-oriented descriptions.
For every required asset, write a rich description aimed
at retrieval/matching. Prioritize information in this or-
der:
1) Key features (e.g., with drawers, cushioned)
2) Material, color and style
3) Purpose/function
4) Typical usage scenario
6) Assign plausible physical properties.
Provide reasonable dimensions (in centimeters) and
mass(in kg) for each asset, consider its daily properties
and usage. Use sensible linear damping: keep a default
damping 0.1 unless the user description clearly implies
unusual damping. Treat structural/base elements as non-
movable; most other objects should be movable.
7) Ensure coverage and consistency.
• Each requested asset should be referenced by at least
one object instance.
• Multiple object instances may share the same asset
when appropriate.
• Avoid redundant “placeholder” entries that do not
correspond to an actual object instance.
D.2
Static Layout Analysis Prompt
Spatial Relation Graph (Static Layout) Analysis
Prompt
Analyze the user’s scene description and given ob-
ject list, and construct a static spatial relation graph in a
structured, step-by-step manner. Your goal is to produce
a layout description that is metrically plausible, seman-
tically consistent, and constraint-ready for downstream
placement/optimization.
1) Determine the scene context and scope
• Decide whether the scene is indoor or outdoor.
• Identify foreground actors vs. background context,
keeping the scene complete but not overcrowded.
2) Establish the structural base (scene frame)
• Indoor: define a minimal enclosing room frame (wall-
s/ceiling/floor) so the space is a physically meaningful
container.
• Outdoor: define exactly one ground/road base repre-
senting the entire walkable/drivable surface; do not
split it into multiple ground-like bases.
3) Create semantic regions (functional placement do-
mains)
• Define semantic regions as functional sub-spaces that
objects can be placed on, in, or attached to, each
grounded in a valid parent object.
• Support surfaces: for objects that can support others
(e.g., floor, table/desk tops, benches, road surface).
• Storage regions: for objects that can contain others
(e.g., cabinet interior, car interior, boxes).
• Attached surfaces: vertical (e.g., wall surface) and
horizontal (e.g., ceiling surface) attachment domains.
• Ensure regions are sufficient for all non-structural ob-
jects; avoid regions that do not correspond to any real
parent object.
4) Assign each object to exactly one semantic region
• Every regular (non-structural) object must belong to a
meaningful semantic region consistent with its phys-
ical placement.
• Do not duplicate region membership as relation
edges; region assignment already encodes that con-
straint.
5) Define object nodes (instances) consistently
• Use logical object instance names (e.g., desk_1,
chair_1, car_1) and keep them consistent across re-
gions and relations.
• Keep regular objects compact; if too many are men-
tioned, prioritize the most important ones to stay
within a practical complexity budget.
6) Add spatial relations as canonical edges (only when
meaningful)
• Add relations only to express object-to-object seman-
tics not already implied by semantic-region member-
ship.
• Use canonical relation types (binary and multi-object)
from the allowed inventory; map informal wording
(e.g., “next to”, “against”) to the closest canonical
relation (e.g., near or adjacent).
• Prefer relations within the same semantic region;
avoid cross-domain relations unless strongly required
by the description.
• Write relation descriptions unambiguously and check
for contradictions, especially when multiple relations
connect the same objects.
7) Enforce a single “face” relation per regular object
• For every non-structural object, assign exactly one
directional face relation representing its function-
al/usage direction in the horizontal plane.
• Strategy: indoor tables/desks face a fixed cardinal di-
rection (e.g., +Y); outdoor road vehicles face along
the road (+Y or -Y); most other objects should face
a relevant object (e.g., chair faces desk/table) rather
than a cardinal direction.
8) Final self-check (consistency and completeness)
• Structural base matches scene type and is not dupli-
cated.
• Every semantic region has a valid parent object and
clear function.


• Every regular object is assigned to a valid semantic
region.
• Every regular object has exactly one outgoing face
relation.
• All relation types are canonical; no internal conflicts.
• The graph is not over-specified (avoid redundant con-
straints already implied by region assignment).
D.3
Dynamic Timeline Analysis Prompt
TIMELINE
SYSTEM
(DYNAMIC
PARSING)
PROMPT
Analyze the user’s description and derive a timeline-
constrained dynamic specification as a sequence graph
(point events + segment motions). Focus on what must
happen and when, while leaving continuous motion de-
tails to physics-based optimization.
1) Decide whether to generate a dynamic timeline Only
generate the dynamic timeline when the scene is in-
tended to be dynamic. If the description is purely static,
do not introduce a timeline.
2) Identify all actors and classify roles from the user
description List every object that is expected to move
or be affected by motion, including objects that may be
pushed, hit, or displaced by others.
Classify each listed actor based on the user description
(not on object type):
• active: the user describes it as moving by its own
power or intention (controllable motion segments
such as driving, braking, accelerating, turning)
• passive: the user describes it as stationary or only
moved by external forces (e.g., being hit, pushed,
blown)
If an active actor exists, assign a force-direction con-
straint appropriate to the described motion (e.g., any
3D, horizontal plane, along forward/backward, along
forward only).
3) Construct point events (nodes) as event-level con-
straints Use point events to represent sparse supervision
that the physics should satisfy. Include the following
types when needed:
• SceneStart: mandatory start event at time 0.0
• Collision: used when the user explicitly describes a
collision between two objects
• Trigger: used to mark the start or end of an intentional
controlled action by an active actor (e.g., start braking,
stop accelerating)
• PositionAt: only use when the user explicitly requires
a position constraint at a certain time, or when a min-
imal verification point is necessary to disambiguate a
motion outcome
Only include the objects directly involved in a point
event. Do not create trigger events for passive objects.
4) Plan time windows by building and validating a de-
pendency graph Derive a directed acyclic dependency
graph from the described sequence (what happens be-
fore what). Assign timestamps only when the user gives
explicit times; otherwise assign time windows.
Plan windows in a topological order and enforce tem-
poral consistency: for every connection from node A to
node B, ensure B starts after A can possibly end (the
earliest time of B is not earlier than the latest time of A).
When the user does not specify times:
• infer reasonable windows based on scene scale and
typical physics
• keep windows relatively broad for uncertain events
• leave explicit gaps between sequential events to avoid
overlap
After assignment, validate all dependencies again to en-
sure global consistency, especially for chain events.
5) Derive segment motions (edges) as abstract actions
between point events Represent continuous motion as
segments that connect two point events. Each segment
describes the motion of one active actor from its start
node to its end node. The segment duration is implied by
its endpoints unless the user provides a specific duration.
Use segment types such as:
• UniformMotion (steady motion)
• Brake (deceleration represented via increased damp-
ing or an equivalent braking control)
• AcceleratedMotion (speeding up)
• Turn (heading change)
Do not over-author post-event motion that the user did
not describe (e.g., do not script how objects settle after a
collision unless the user explicitly describes additional
motion after the collision).
6) Handle multi-stage cascading motion with virtual
inertial connectors when required Multi-stage motion
(e.g., A hits B, then B hits C) should be parsed and
represented explicitly when the user describes it.
Use a virtual inertial connector only when all conditions
are met:
• a passive object is involved
• the passive object is first moved by an upstream col-
lision
• the user explicitly describes that it subsequently col-
lides with another object
Do not use virtual connectors for: single collisions with
no described follow-up, active actor movements, or gen-
eral graph connectivity.
7) Choose parameters from the user description and
provide feasible ranges when unspecified When the user
provides exact values or ranges, follow them. When the


user does not specify values, provide wide but reason-
able numeric ranges based on common sense and daily
experience.
Do not use unknown placeholders for parameters.
8) Map language cues to timeline elements Translate
common expressions into event and segment choices:
• hits, crashes into: collision point event
• starts braking, stops, begins to brake: trigger point
event plus a braking segment
• drives, moves forward: uniform motion segment
• accelerates: accelerated motion segment
• turns left/right: turning segment
9) Final self-check for dynamic consistency Before out-
put:
• every actor exists in the static spatial relation graph
• exactly one start event exists at time 0.0
• all point events and segments form a valid directed
acyclic graph
• all time windows satisfy the dependency ordering
constraints
• triggers are only used for active actors’ controlled
actions
• virtual inertial connectors are only used for user-
described chain collisions of passive objects
